1 BC001-3321FBA07341 [88] A smart control and monitoring system
The present invention relates to a smart control and monitoring system for a gun. The smart control and monitoring system is detachably attached to the gun. The smart security control and monitoring system for the gun includes various sensors and components like GPS device, GPS proximity sensor, battery, motion sensor, RFID tag, low battery sensor, load sensor, tamper sensor, touch sensor, magazine capacity counter sensor, finger print authentication sensor, lock and contact sensor, speaker, LED, camera, heat sensor, memory card slot, printed circuit board (PCB) device, an alarm unit, LED light, Digital counter and a laser means. The smart security and alert system is operably connected to an external cloud device or law enforcement database or law enforcement security server.

2 BC001-0B323FE348B5 [88] Biometric Access Control System
A biometric access control system, and a weapon rack. The system may include an identification station including a biometric reader, an equipment identification reader, and a user interface, and an equipment structure in communication with the identification station and including a plurality of locks corresponding to a plurality of storage locations. The weapon rack may include a plurality of storage locations individually storing a plurality of weapons, and including a plurality of weapon stock receiving and supporting pockets to secure the weapons, a plurality of clamps corresponding to the plurality of storage locations to additionally secure the weapons, and a plurality of sensors aligned with the plurality of clamps to indicate presence or absence of the plurality of weapons.

3 BC001-0031124B24F1 [88] Fingerprint operating gun case
This invention relates to the case of a weapon that works by fingerprint, which has a security mechanism that allows only the use of a firearm within an authorized person; a microcontroller that identifies if data retrieved by at least one capacitive fingerprint sensor (2), fingerprint sensor (2) on the weapon case and whether there is any fingerprint data from individuals previously identified by the system, microcontroller(3) validates with personalized fingerprint match, releasing the gun safety latch, and allowing the use of the weapon, electromagnetic lock (4), which extracts data from the satellite for location, timing and positioning, GPS (5), configured to provide mobile connectivity (6) battery module, battery or rechargeable battery for use in feeding mechanical disorders located in the weapons case (1). is to include one power supply

4 BC001-91D38DDF387D [88] Firearm with biometric safety mechanism
A firearm has a battery-operated biometric scanning device secured along an interior side edge of the firearm grip. The biometric scanning device is configured with a microprocessor which disables the trigger mechanism of the firearm when an invalid fingerprint is scanned. The device has an integrated positioning tracking system.

5 BC001-0FA6DEF0629B [88] Identification with RFID asset locator for entry authorization
The invention relates to an identification with a RFID asset locator for entry authorization. A system for controlling access at secure facilities to locations and assets contained in those locations, comprising a biometric identification device, an RFID tag and receiver, and a database for processing information from them to allow or deny access to the locations and assets. The system ties into an existing network in the facility and also includes a programming device for evaluation of the biometric template and acknowledgement of the identification, if made. The system also controls the permissible locations of assets such as laptops, desktop computers, photographic equipment, weapons such as rifles, data storage devices and the like, such that while a person may have access to a location, use of an asset or removal of the asset may not be part of that person's authorized conduct.

6 BC001-43580F7BF283 [88] Identification with rfid asset locator for entry authorization
A system for controlling access at secure facilities to locations and assets contained in those locations, comprising a biometric identification device, an RFID tag and receiver, and a database for processing information from them to allow or deny access to the locations and assets. The system ties into an existing network in the facility and also includes a programming device for evaluation of the biometric template and acknowledgement of the identification, if made. The system also controls the permissible locations of assets such as laptops, desktop computers, photographic equipment, weapons such as rifles, data storage devices and the like, such that while a person may have access to a location, use of an asset or removal of the asset may not be part of that person's authorized conduct.

7 BC001-5AB0C6231159 [88] Intelligent Internet of Things police pistol
The utility model relates to an intelligent Internet of Things police pistol. The intelligent Internet of Things police pistol comprises a pistol body and a forced safety sliding block arranged besidea driving hammer of the pistol body. The forced safety sliding block is driven by an electromagnet, and the electromagnet is controlled by a main control circuit arranged in a grip of the pistol body. The utility model provides an intelligent Internet of Things police pistol. Unlocking by fingerprint, meanwhile, geographic information can be collected, communication with a firearm management website of a public security related department is conducted through a wireless mobile communication network, the firearm management website can remotely monitor the using state of firearms, lock or unlock firearm insurance, the identity of a firearm holder, the geographic position of the firearms and other information through the network, and the firearm management strength is greatly enhanced.

8 BC001-7BA69A8AAAF4 [88] Intelligent safety lock for gun
The utility model discloses an intelligent safety lock for a gun. The intelligent safety lock for the gun comprises a left lock base and a right lock base which are locked to each other, wherein the right lock base comprises a lock frame, a spring, a plug pin, a positioning frame, an electromagnetic guiding head, an electromagnetic coil, an intelligent fingerprint processing module, a lock base shell and a fingerprint collecting plate, the lock frame is fixedly connected with the lock base shell, a containing cavity is formed in the lock frame, the positioning frame, the electromagnetic guiding head, the electromagnetic coil and the intelligent fingerprint processing module are arranged in the containing cavity, a protruding column is arranged outside the lock frame and provided with an infrared induction device, and the positioning frame is provided with a through hole for the plug pin to penetrate through; the left lock base is provided with a column groove matched with the protruding column, the column groove is provided with a metal inserting core, and the metal inserting pin is provided with an inserting hole matched with the plug pin; the fingerprint collecting plate, the infrared induction device, the intelligent fingerprint processing module and the electromagnetic coil are connected through electric signals. According to the intelligent safety lock for the gun, the safety lock is opened in a fingerprint recognition mode, safety performance is higher, locking and unlocking can be fast achieved, and the intelligent safety lock for the gun is easy and convenient to operate and more reliable in use.

9 BC001-915BDE3552D6 [88] Intelligent weapon
A system for monitoring use of a weapon. The system includes a monitoring station and at least one weapon in which the weapon fires a projectile. The weapon includes a tracking device, in which the tracking device receives navigational data, and a transceiver. The transceiver transmits at least the navigational data to the monitoring station. The weapon can further include a biometric identifier for identifying a user and a trigger mechanism in which the biometric identifier can enable the trigger mechanism only when the biometric identifier identifies an authorized user. In one arrangement, the tracking device can be a global positioning system receiver that can receive navigational data from a plurality of global positioning system satellites.

10 BC001-22E8175917E8 [88] Launch monitor
A launch monitor that includes substantially all of its functional components on or within a housing is disclosed. In one embodiment, the launch monitor is capable of being transported and used in any desired location. One or more camera's, flashes, and triggers may be used to acquire images of a golf club and golf ball. The launch monitor is preferably capable of receiving and transmitting data over a wireless network. Acquired images and other data may be analyzed by a processor, and then displayed using an LED, LCD or other type of display or printer. The launch monitor may “recognize” a plurality of golf clubs and golf balls based on an optical fingerprint. The optical fingerprints, which are preferably stored in a memory, allow the launch monitor to identify a golf club and/or ball substantially soon after they are placed in the field of view of the monitor Optical fingerprinting enables automatic record keeping, and storing performance data and equipment used simultaneously. This feature eliminates tedious record keeping, eliminates data entry errors, and enables rapid equipment optimization.

11 BC001-244A69060244 [88] Launch monitor
A launch monitor that includes substantially all of its functional components on or within a housing is disclosed. In one embodiment, the launch monitor is capable of being transported and used in any desired location. One or more camera's, flashes, and triggers may be used to acquire images of a golf club and golf ball. The launch monitor is preferably capable of receiving and transmitting data over a wireless network. Acquired images and other data may be analyzed by a processor, and then displayed using an LED, LCD or other type of display or printer. The launch monitor may “recognize” a plurality of golf clubs and golf balls based on an optical fingerprint. The optical fingerprints, which are preferably stored in a memory, allow the launch monitor to identify a golf club and/or ball substantially soon after they are placed in the field of view of the monitor Optical fingerprinting enables automatic record keeping, and storing performance data and equipment used simultaneously. This feature eliminates tedious record keeping, eliminates data entry errors, and enables rapid equipment optimization.

12 BC001-15A6BF40BD91 [88] Multi-Sensor Firearm Shot Detection and Analysis System
A multi-sensor shot detection system and method for accurately identifying and recording gunfire initiated by a user while filtering out ambient gunshots in shared shooting environments. The system integrates motion and acoustic sensors, with data fused into a unified feature vector and processed using a trained classification model to identify valid shot events in real time. The device includes an adaptive calibration process to tune detection parameters to specific firearms and user characteristics. Sensor data is processed locally and may include biometric, environmental, and location-based inputs. Processed event records are stored and synchronized with external applications to support advanced analytics and long-term performance tracking. The system is deployable in wearable and firearm-mounted configurations, enabling high-accuracy detection and context-aware feedback across various use cases.

13 BC001-5E0CE61B9F95 [88] Personalized intelligent identification police-used gun management device and system
The embodiment of the invention provides a personalized intelligent identification police-used gun management device and system. The device comprises a single chip microcomputer, a lock body unit, anintelligent identification unit, a positioning unit, a communication unit and a power supply unit, wherein the single chip microcomputer is arranged in a gun and connected with the other five units, the lock body unit comprises a trigger lock and a gun sleeve lock, the intelligent identification unit adopts fingerprint identification, the positioning unit adopts a GPS unit, and the communication unit comprises a Bluetooth unit and a GPRS unit; and the intelligent identification unit collects user fingerprints and compares the user fingerprints with fingerprint data typed in the single chip microcomputer in advance, the single chip microcomputer controls opening and closing of the trigger lock according to a comparison result, the gun geographic position information transmitted by the GPS unit through the GPRS unit can be inquired on a mobile terminal in real time, and the power supply unit supplies power to a gun-end power supply through wireless charging. According to the personalizedintelligent identification police-used gun management device and system, personalization of a police-used gun can be achieved, the gun is locked as soon as the gun is separated from the hand, an opponent can not use the gun after the gun is snatched, and the gun can be found through a real-time positioning function after being lost.

14 BC001-B008E3269A49 [88] Police intelligent automatic aiming air gun and control method and system thereof
The invention discloses a police intelligent automatic aiming air gun and a control method and system thereof. The air gun integrates an AI technology, a 5G network and a Beidou positioning system, has intelligent automatic aiming and remote monitoring functions, and aims at improving the precision and safety of police non-lethal weapons. The gun structurally comprises a rotatable gun barrel, a gun barrel cover, a sighting device, a rotary adjuster, a bullet feeding flexible connector, a magazine, a trigger, an on-off key, an air tank, a micro air compressor, a handle, a battery and the like. When the system is started, the system performs self-inspection and is connected with a police service monitoring center through a 5G network, and the identity of a user is verified and authorized. Police officers can select a target through a head-mounted display and a gun-mounted sighting device, the system automatically adjusts the sighting angle by using an AI human body and face recognition function, supports various bullet types, synchronously uploads gun positions, on-site videos and shooting information to a monitoring center, and enhances on-site commanding and post-analysis capabilities. According to the technical background, the fields of computer vision, a sensor technology, an artificial intelligence algorithm, precision mechanical design and the like are fused, the habits of a shooter and a precision mechanical structure are learned through high-speed image recognition, high-precision sensor detection and an AI algorithm, and the stability and durability of the firearm are ensured. Meanwhile, the feedback control system dynamically adjusts the aiming point, a user interface can be set in a user-defined mode, and data sharing and remote control are achieved through the wireless communication technology. The development of the air gun strictly complies with laws, adopts preventive measures to prevent abuse, and provides an advanced tool for the field of law enforcement.

15 BC001-234167E357A2 [88] Police pistol based on intelligent Internet of Things
The invention relates to a police pistol based on an intelligent Internet of Things. The pistol comprises a pistol gun body and a forced safety slide block, wherein the forced safety slide block is arranged beside a hammer of the pistol gun body; and the forced safety slide block is driven by an electromagnet, and the electromagnet is controlled by a master control circuit arranged in a grip of the pistol gun body. According to the police pistol based on intelligent Internet of Things, unlocking is achieved through the fingerprint, geographic information can be collected, the police pistol communicates with the firearm management website of the public security related department through the wireless mobile communication network, the firearm management website can remotely supervise the usestate of the firearm, locking or unlocking of the firearm safety, the identity of the gun-holding person and the geographic position of the firearm through the network, so that the management intensity of the firearm is greatly enhanced.

16 BC001-4A411F49C18E [88] Real-time iot-based firearm usage, access control and tamper detection system
The present invention presents an IoT-based firearm monitoring system designed to enhance firearm safety, prevent misuse and enable real-time accountability. The system integrates multi-sensor fusion, including accelerometers, gyroscopes and acoustic or pressure sensors, to detect firearm handling and discharge events with high accuracy. A biometric or RFIDbased authentication module ensures access is restricted to authorized users, while an integrated GPS or GNSS receiver provides continuous geolocation tracking. A microcontroller unit performs event classification, encryption and secure transmission of data to a cloud-based analytics platform via Wi-Fi, LTE, NB-IoT or LoRa networks. The platform enables AI-assisted anomaly detection, alerts for unauthorized or abnormal activity and secure historical logging. The system includes tamper detection and fail-safe local data storage, and can be implemented as a retrofit module or factory-integrated firearm system.

17 BC001-D3923AE61E53 [88] Security covers for controls, handling, push-button or similar, in armament and transportation
Safety covers for controls, handle, push button or similar, in weapons and transport, characterized by the covers (1) having a delimiting design with a digital location, preferably with ergonomic relief, a material with at least one section that is transparent inwards and preferably in greater extent than outwards, in such a way that its possible internal elements are not distinguishable, and a compact final assembly, in such a way that its possible internal elements are not accessible, and preferably to include: a fingerprint reader (2) or plus each one, characterized by being located strategically inside a control (3) -handle, button or similar- and by having the fingerprint of the user or users on the recognition software card; a sensor (4) or more each, thermal or/and pulse, characterized by being located next to the previous piece; an electronic connection (5), from the mentioned pieces, characterized by preferably comprising an unlocking command in the event of a fingerprint in coincident contact and detected together with "normal" contacts, temperature or/and pulse, and a counter-order in the face of non-coincident fingerprint or no normal contacts, temperature or pulse or in the absence of energy; an internal locking/unlocking part (6) characterized by being connected to said electronic connection (5) and, mechanically, electrically or/and electronically, to any of the locks or drive feeders; an energy source (7); a complementary modem; a complementary timer connected to a permanent disable system; complementary "placebo" elements.

18 BC001-D9937732CD71 [88] Special messengerization intelligent recognition is alert to manage device with gun
The embodiment of the utility model provides a special messengerization intelligent recognition is alert to manage device with gun. The device includes: singlechip, lock body unit, intelligent recognition unit, positioning unit, communication unit and electrical unit. The singlechip is connected with other five units respectively in placing gun in, and the lock body unit includes trigger lock andgun case lock, and the intelligent recognition unit adopts fingerprint identification, and positioning unit adopts the GPS unit, and communication unit includes bluetooth unit and GPRS unit, the fingerprint data of typeeing in advance in intelligent recognition unit collection user's fingerprint and the singlechip are compared, and the singlechip passes through the geographical positional information of GPRS unit real time transport gun according to the switching of comparison result control trigger lock, GPS unit, and electrical unit charges for gun end mains operated through wireless. The utility model discloses can realize alert special messengerization with gun, gun are locked from the hand promptly, are grabbed the unable gun that use of back the other side at gun, utilize the real -time navigation capability to give gun for change after gun are lost.

19 BC001-541FB6D4C7DD [88] Supervising system for full-process safety of armed escort guns
The invention discloses a supervising system for full-process safety of armed escort guns. The supervising system comprises a central server, gun base handover authorization scanning equipment and on-vehicle gun scanning equipment. The central server is used for storing related data in armed escort operation. The gun base handover authorization scanning equipment is used for performing human-and-gun binding through fingerprint authentication of using personnel and corresponding scanning of a label gun. The on-vehicle gun scanning equipment is used for supplying real-time safety insurance for full process in armed escort transportation. The supervising system performs safety supervision on full-process real-time tracking and positioning in receiving, using and returning of the armed escort guns. In a stock outputting process and a warehousing step for receiving and returning the guns, the number of output or warehousing guns and output or warehousing gun numbers are confirmed through electronic scanning; a man is bound with a unique gun; and alarming is performed when overtime returning occurs. In a task execution process of escort personnel, an on-vehicle gun scanner is utilized for scanning and positioning the guns in real time, and alarming is immediately performed once the distance between the gun and the scanner exceeds a safe distance.

20 BC001-BD70517802F2 [83] 54 pistol with electric capacity fingerprint lock
The utility model discloses a 54 pistol with electric capacity fingerprint lock, individual malposed tooth constructs through design electric capacity fingerprint, this electric capacity fingerprint individual malposed tooth constructs the singlechip that adopts 8bits and opens and close as what obs core control ware control rifle individual malposed tooth constructed, whether the user who passesthrough electric capacity fingerprint identification module discernment pistol simultaneously is the owner of pistol, the user that only discerns the pistol is during for the owner of pistol, rifle individual malposed tooth structure just can be opened, the pistol could use, can prevent effectively like this that gun from losing or the stolen guilty tool that is become lawless persons after robbing, unauthorized use, simultaneously through setting up beidou positioning module, GSM communication module and anti -disassembly module, master the position and the relevant use information of pistolin real time, can effectively improve security, flexibility, science that gun used, whole 54 pistol with electric capacity fingerprint lock's is rational in infrastructure, satisfies the operation requirement.

21 BC001-82C4534DA48A [83] Fingerprint gun lock with high safety
The utility model discloses a fingerprint gun lock with high safety, which comprises a lock shell, a fingerprint identification unlocking area is preset at the side position of the lower end edge of the front surface outside the lock shell, a dustproof protection cover plate is movably mounted at the bottom of the lock shell, and a connecting hinge is movably mounted between the bottom of the lockshell and the dustproof protection cover plate. A charging slot is formed in the side position of the bottom of the lock shell, a fixing end is fixedly installed on one side of the upper end of the outer portion of the lock shell, a lock head is fixedly connected to the end of the connecting rope, and a limiting positioning assembly bolt is fixedly installed at the corner position of the inner portion of the lock shell. And a fingerprint sensing electronic plate is fixedly mounted at the lower end of the other side in the lock shell. According to the fingerprint gun lock with high safety, therechargeable power supply is adopted as an energy supply basis, and meanwhile, the charging dustproof protection mechanism is additionally arranged, so that the overall service life of the gun lock is prolonged to a certain extent, and the overall application range is effectively enlarged on the basis of improving the overall use performance.

22 BC001-B5BE2EF6266D [83] Firearm Safety Assembly
A firearm safety assembly for preventing the firearm from being discharged by an unauthorized user includes a processor coupled to a firearm. A fingerprint scanner is coupled to the firearm. The fingerprint scanner may read an authorized user's fingerprint. The fingerprint scanner is operationally coupled to the processor. A thumbprint scanner is coupled to the firearm. The thumbprint scanner may read the authorized user's thumbprint. The thumbprint scanner is operationally coupled to the processor. A trigger lock is coupled to the firearm. The trigger lock is operationally coupled to the processor. The trigger lock allows the firearm to be fired when the processor receives the authorized user's fingerprint and thumbprint. A GPS is coupled to the firearm. The GPS is operationally coupled to the processor. The GPS determining a location of the firearm.

23 BC001-AAF7833C0334 [83] Small arms with finger print recognition device
The present invention relates to general guns and gas guns to which fingerprint recognizers are attached and which can only be used by pre-registered users.According to the invention, a gun and gas gun in which a fingerprint recognizer (5) is attached to an appropriate location so that a user can only have to register a fingerprint beforehand, characterized in that the fingerprint recognizer incorporates the function of confirming that it is a pre-registered user when triggered or activated, so that only the registered user can use the device.

24 BC001-39BF2F2B47CE [80] A fingerprint identification ignition installation for automobile staring system
The utility model discloses a fingerprint identification ignition installation for automobile staring system, including operating button, fingerprint identification ware, electronic switch, automobile point firearm, the operating button below is provided with outside support housing, outside support housing is inside to be provided with the fingerprint identification ware, fingerprint identification ware below is provided with electronic switch, the electronic switch below is provided with automobile point firearm, outside support housing surface is provided with voice prompt, outside support housing side is provided with external power supply socket, the external power supply socket top is provided with the data transmission terminal. Beneficial effect lies in: the security performance is high, only the input advance that the talent of fingerprint can start the automobile in the database, contact operant response sensitivity, the wearing and tearing of having avoided the wrench movement to bring have lengthened the life of automobile staring switch.

25 BC001-FFEBA863B6D3 [80] A network type firearms management system
The utility model discloses a network type firearms management system comprising several network type firearms management subsystems connected to a brigade or regiment grade firearms real time information management system through a TCP/IP network. Each network type firearms management subsystem comprises a gun cabinet and a hand-held firearms warehouse entering and exiting management device which are both connected with a comprehensive management platform; the gun cabinets interact with the comprehensive management platforms; and the comprehensive management platforms are connected to the brigade or regiment grade firearms real time information management system through the TCP/IP network through corresponding databases. According to the utility model, the gun cabinets and the hand-held firearms warehouse entering and exiting management devices are connected to the comprehensive management platforms; accurate identification of identities of firearms usage personnel and real time checking of firearms in-position conditions realized through comprehensive utilization of technology such as fingerprint identification, video monitor, invasion alarming and network communication so as to reinforce supervision of firearms; and accurate identification of firearms numbers and wireless interaction of firearms warehouse entering and exiting management data are realized through utilization of machine visual sense and wireless communication technology so as to raise firearms warehouse entering and exiting efficiency.

26 BC001-13221E86532A [80] Accelerator irradiation device
The utility model discloses an accelerator irradiation device, including the screened room, be equipped with the fingerprint identification lock on the shield door of screened room, improve the safety that gets into the screened room, the top of screened room is equipped with the image acquisition window, and image acquisition is equipped with the image acquisition device outside window, is convenient for master the irradiation condition in the screened room, be equipped with the temperature -sensing ware on the lateral wall in the screened room, the screened room is equipped with temperature monitor and the alarm device who is connected with the temperature -sensing ware outward to warning alarm is in time carried out to the real -time supervision temperature, being equipped with electron gun, accelerator, vacuum tube, scanning box, scanning magnetic component in the screened room, restrainting transmission device down, restraint down transmission device and be equipped with corrosion resistant plate chain transmission band, the electron gun includes the casing and locates the cloudy bars subassembly in the casing, and cloudy bars subassembly includes cathode assembly and grid subassembly, and casing one end is equipped with the metal flange who passes through coalesced copper sealing washer sealing connection with the accelerator, the beneficial effect of the change that realizes being convenient for.

27 BC001-412B4822AEC2 [80] An improved firearm repository, security and access control system
The present invention discloses a firearm access control system comprises at least one firearm repository (100) having a rack structure defining one or more cartridge storages (108) for accommodating one or more firearms, a locking mechanism (106) for locking the cartridge storages (108), a biometric input device (101) for obtaining biometric information from a user, a chip reader (102) for reading chip, and a control unit (107) for processing data and actuating the locking mechanism (106), and a computer server (200) linked to the control unit (107) via a communication network (300), configured to collect data information from the control unit (107), to authenticate the user by comparing the biometric information with those pre-stored in a database (202), upon successful authentication, the computer server (200) further checks and verifies the user?s authority, and followed by instructing the locking mechanism (106) to release firearm that carries the assigned chip (102) via the control unit (107).

28 BC001-46BF436404C6 [80] An information center remote monitoring electronic sight and an authentication method thereof
The invention provides an information center remote monitoring electronic sight and an authentication method thereof. The information center remote monitoring electronic sight comprises a site part and a remote command center part. The site part comprises a group of lenses, an image sensor, a biometric characteristic information collection device, a wind speed sensor, a display device, a terminal communication device and a power source. The remote command center part comprises a data processing device and a remote communication device, wherein the data processing device comprises a control unit, a comparison operation unit and a memory. The site is separated from remote control, so that data transmission and maintenance of devices and apparatuses are facilitated. The biometric characteristic identification technology is adopted; the biometric characteristics are unit characteristics possessed by users and cannot be duplicated and forgotten, require no memorizing, can be used anytime and anywhere, and are difficult to decipher and forge; through authentication of the identity of a user, the safety of usage of firearms is improved.

29 BC001-1EB69221CE7A [80] An intelligent fingerprint & voice operated firearm
The present invention relates to the locking device preventing the unauthorized utilization of firearms.The invention provides the trigger locking rod operated on the biometric finger print sensor placed at the trigger or voice recognition module with microphone which can be signal conditioned by the controller board to unlock the trigger only by transmitting relevant biometric data or approved voice to the said block, said data Corresponding with biometric data and voice data digitally stored in the block memory.

30 BC001-87CA15BBD0CE [80] Authorization module and method for activating firearms
An authorization module (10) is provided for activating an associated portable or hand-held electronic device such as a firearm (22). The authorization module includes a housing (12) defining a cavity, and an electrical interface for communicating with the electronic firearm. The housing is preferably generally in the shape of a firearm magazine for insertion into a magazine well of the electronic firearm. A fingerprint sensor (16) is supported on and faces outwardly of the housing (12) for generating a fingerprint signal indicative of a fingerprint pattern detected by the fingerprint sensor (16). A fingerprint identification circuit (14) is disposed within the cavity of the housing and communicates with the fingerprint sensor (16) for receiving the fingerprint signal and for comparing the sensed fingerprint pattern with an authorized user's fingerprint pattern stored in the identification circuit (14). The identification circuit (14) communicates with the electrical interface for transmitting an authorization signal to activate the firearm if the sensed fingerprint pattern substantially matches the authorized user's fingerprint pattern. The module is preferably powered by DC batteries (27) disposed within the housing.

31 BC001-A8AF9CB44A3A [80] Biometric Method activated Locking and Authorization Systems
[Resolution Means] a system 100 for locking, storing, enabling, and disabling devices such as normal firearms and electronic firearms. System 100 uses a control system 126,134,136 that is responsive to biometric data input by biometric data input device 134,136. A single input of the authorized biometric data permits release of the lock box 100 or trigger locking device and actuation and foaming of an electronically controlled firearm equipped with an electronic locking system or electronic foaming system.

32 BC001-C25B4328DC89 [80] Biometric detection system and method preventing unauthorized use
A biometric detection system and method for controlling the unauthorized use of weapons, such as handguns, aircraft, heavy machinery and potentially dangerous instruments. A biometric grip detector senses and compares a signature profile before authorization is allowed, or removes authorization by periodically verifying the authorization of the user. The biometric grip detector includes a plurality of pressure sensors for sensing a handgrip of a user on an item (520); a comparator for comparing a pressure signature profile compiled from an output from the plurality of pressure sensors with at least one pressure signature profile (540).

33 BC001-22CE6D308812 [80] Biometric electro-mechanical locking system
A biometric electro-mechanical locking system for a firearm includes a generally hollow main body having a pivot plate that is secured along the first end. A hand grip is positioned along the main body and configured to slide between a FIRE position where the trigger assembly of the firearm is accessible, and a SAFE position where the trigger assembly of the firearm is not accessible. A release button is positioned along the main body and is mechanically coupled to a dual locking assembly that is positioned within the main body. The dual locking assembly including an electromechanical locking unit having a processor, memory, fingerprint sensor and electric servo, and a mechanical locking unit having a mechanical combination lock.

34 BC001-A4DF24F1D51D [80] Biometric firearm chamber lock
The biometric firearm chamber lock is a biometric electro-mechanical locking system integrated firearm safety device. The device safely locks firearms by securing the firearm lock into the firearm chamber through the ejection port to prevent rounds from being fired. An electrical biometric sensor quickly unlocks the firearm lock from the firearm. A mechanical backup unlock mechanism is used if a replacement battery is unavailable or if the electrical components fail and cannot be used to unlock the firearm lock. The firearm lock is an independent structure requiring no installation process.

35 BC001-773578E9B424 [80] Biometric firearm trigger lock with alarm
This disclosure provides a trigger lock system that includes a trigger lock that collects a fingerprint and unlocks when the fingerprint matches a stored fingerprint. The trigger lock in-cludes a wireless communication module, for example, Bluetooth module and a Thread module, such that it can connect to a user device by Bluetooth or internet through a Thread router. The trigger lock may be unlocked remotely by sending a command from the user device. The trigger lock may send information of each attempt to unlock the trigger lock by fingerprint to the user device. The trigger lock may send alerts to the user device. The trigger lock also includes an alarm that produces alert when unauthorized personnel attempts to unlock the trigger lock.

36 BC001-F135B46A4984 [80] Biometric gun lock
A gun lock device and firearm security system configured to prevent unauthorized use of a firearm. The gun lock device includes a lower housing, an upper housing, and a locking mechanism comprising a motor and a latch pin. The latch pin is actuated by the motor to engage or disengage a catch pin, thereby locking or unlocking the device. A control circuit, powered by an internal power source, controls the motor based on external signals, which may be received wirelessly. The system further includes a mobile device that captures biometric data, such as a fingerprint, and communicates with the control circuit to authorize unlocking of the gun lock. A cable is connected to the gun lock device to provide additional physical security. Tamper detection sensors and an audible alert system can also be integrated to enhance security and provide feedback upon unlocking attempts.

37 BC001-DEE1CC60EB31 [80] Biometric identification system for gun
A user identification assembly for a firearm includes a sight configured for use on said firearm. The sight being positioned on said firearm to provide a point of aim to a user. A light source is disposed on the sight and projects toward the user in a direction opposite the point of aim. An image sensor is disposed on the sight and is configured to capture image data of an object. The image sensor is configured to identify the user of said firearm. A controller is in communication with the image sensor and is configured to allow operation of said firearm based on the captured image data.

38 BC001-2CA9E9E96AE1 [80] Biometric trigger lock
A biometric trigger lock to be removably installed on a pistol, the biometric trigger lock including a first body, including a biometric sensor disposed on a surface of the first body, and a latching mechanism disposed within the first body and electrically connected to the biometric sensor to move from a latched position to an unlatched position in response to a finger of an authorized user touching the biometric sensor, and a second body, including a pin extending from a side portion of the second body and including a latching tip to detachably connect to the latching mechanism.

39 BC001-29C9679F3144 [80] Business administration entrance guard attendance machine
The utility model discloses a business administration entrance guard attendance machine, this business administration entrance guard attendance machine mainly includes: microprocessor, record storage, make a video recording knowledge face ware, fingerprint sampler, time display, instruction alarm, visual intercom, verification lockaid gun, microprocessor set up the center at business administration entrance guard attendance machine, record storage connect the downside at microprocessor, make a video recording and know the face ware and connect one side upper end at microprocessor, fingerprint sampler connect at one side of microprocessor lower extreme, time display set up and to know the upside of face ware making a video recording, the instruction alarm connect the upside at microprocessor, visual intercom setting verifying the upside of lockaid gun, the verification lockaid gun connect the downside at microprocessor. The utility model discloses having possessed entrance guard and attendance function in the device of an organic whole, having realized attendance information storage and in time reported to the police, the security is good.

40 BC001-6C114A4558BA [80] Combined set of checkpoints for the physical protection system (pps) of critical facilities with automation of access control and management processes
FIELD: controlling access to a protected area.SUBSTANCE: combined complex contains: a central control point (CCUP); a person access checkpoint system; a vehicle access checkpoint system; mobile checkpoint system; a checkpoint system for management, representatives of law enforcement agencies, the Emergency Control Ministry and VIPs; a system of basic equipment for checkpoints; a communication system including radio communication channels and communication channels using wired and/or fibre optic communication lines; backup power system. The person access checkpoint system contains: subsystems for automatic control and access control by electronic access card or by personal access code; a subsystem for detecting metal objects, including weapons, explosives and radioactive materials; a group of biometric identification subsystems; a group of video cameras to provide an analysis of the behavioural characteristics of a person when identifying him/her by biodynamics. Identification subsystems can be used as biometric identification subsystems: by fingerprint, by face, by iris, by hand geometry or vein pattern, by handwritten password or signature, by voice and by biodynamics. The system of the transport access checkpoint contains subsystems for the inspection of the bottom of the vehicle; subsystems for automatic scanning of vehicles; equipment for detecting metal objects, including weapons, explosives and radioactive materials; biometric identification equipment. The communication system includes radio communication channels and communication channels using wired and/or fiber optic communication lines. All systems and subsystems are included in a single information space for managing and displaying information, which provides the possibility of information exchange for systems, subsystems and technical means with the MCC with updating the local databases of all controllers that control access points in real time through the use of radio channels and communication lines.EFFECT: expanding the arsenal of tools for more comprehensive automation of access control and management processes and increasing the reliability of physical protection of critical facilities while reducing the number of human resources.7 cl, 7 dwg

41 BC001-90690DA62005 [80] Complex special-shaped workpiece full-feature detection method based on virtual ray model
The invention belongs to the technical field of industrial intelligent detection and precise measurement, and discloses a full-feature detection method for a complex special-shaped workpiece based on a virtual ray model. By establishing a virtual ray projection model, mapping complex two-dimensional profile features into one-dimensional time sequence signals in a dimension reducing manner, utilizing geometric fingerprints to realize mixed line identification, realizing tooling-free phase alignment through minimum mean square error, constructing a dynamic confidence interval based on a local noise map, and realizing accurate detection of size deviation and topological structure of a workpiece. Unlike traditional vision, which only measures the surface size, the invention combines topology layer number verification, and can effectively identify deep defects such as internal structure deficiency (such as fracture and non-drilling). The recognition mechanism based on the geometric fingerprint enables the system to automatically recognize the model of the workpiece and call the corresponding program without an external sensor (such as a code scanning gun), and the flexible production line is perfectly adapted.

42 BC001-7B737ED2E152 [80] Data collection integrated computer system
A data collection integrated computer system comprises a machine cabinet which is made of a steel plate, wherein a base is arranged below the machine cabinet, universal wheels with a brake device and an adjusting angle are installed below the base, four supporting corners are also installed below the base, the back surface of the machine cabinet is provided with a heat radiation blind window, the side surface of the machine cabinet is provided with a heat radiation fan, a computer control system consisting of an uninterrupted power supply system and a computer component module is installed inside the machine cabinet, the machine cabinet is provided with a computer communication interface, a network interface, a bar code scanning gun and a power supply interface, the upper surface of the machine cabinet is provided with an operating platform, and the operating platform is provided with a monitor, a fingerprint identifier, a mouse and a keyboard. The data collection integrated computer system can utilize the integrated keyboard and mouse to perform relatively complex operation, is convenient to move and has good stability and dustproof performance. At the same time, the data collection integrated computer system contains an internal power supply system, so that the system is uneasy to damage in accidental power failure.

43 BC001-157CF36A913C [80] Digital intelligent firearm management system
The invention relates to a digital intelligent firearm management system, which comprises a radio frequency identification device, a face recognition device, a high-definition monitoring device and a central control device, wherein the radio frequency identification device comprises electronic tags arranged on firearm equipment, an electronic tag reader arranged at a firearm cabinet and/or an arsenal access controller and a wireless transceiver arranged on the electronic tag reader; the face recognition device comprises a first image acquisition device arranged at the arsenal access controller; the high-definition monitoring device comprises a second image acquisition device and a monitoring terminal in an arsenal; and the radio frequency identification device, the face recognition device and the high-definition monitoring device transmit acquired information back to the central control device for processing. The system can monitor the arsenal in real time, intelligently manage firearm accessing, bind firearms and personnel identity and give an alarm in real time under abnormal conditions.

44 BC001-EDFBCF90F84B [80] Electron accelerator irradiation constant temperature system
The utility model discloses an electron accelerator irradiation constant temperature system, including the screened room, the screened room is equipped with the shield door, is equipped with fingerprint identification lock and irradiation work pilot lamp on the shield door to the irradiation security improves, being equipped with electron gun, accelerating tube, electronics vacuum tube, scanning box, scanning magnet in the screened room and restrainting transmission device down, be equipped with temperature -sensing ware, humidity inductor and dehydrating unit on the inside wall of screened room, be equipped with alarm, temperature monitor and microcontroller on the lateral wall of screened room, the top wall mounting of screened room is equipped with cooling spray set and MCU controller, so, temperature in the temperature -sensing ware auto -induction screened room is through the processing of cooling down of MCU controller control cooling spray set to advance line display and warning through temperature monitor and alarm, start dehydrating unit when humidity is too high in the humidity sensor induction screened room simultaneously and dehumidify, in order to reach the beneficial effect who improves the electron accelerator irradiation quality.

45 BC001-52D06C91C911 [80] Electronic scale with face recognition function
The invention discloses an electronic scale with a face recognition function, and relates to the field of electronic scales with face recognition functions. The system comprises an electronic canning pile and a weighing platform, a liquid crystal operation screen and an NFC card reader are fixedly installed at the top of the front end of the electronic canning pile, a face recognition instrument is fixedly installed at the top end of the electronic canning pile, a filling gun is installed at the front end of the electronic canning pile, and a control switch is fixedly installed at the side end of the electronic canning pile. The weighing platform is in signal connection with the electronic canning pile, a weighing sensor and an instrument are installed in the weighing platform, the weighing platform is used for collecting weight data in the filling process, the liquid crystal operation screen is used for displaying a login state, a verification result and filling information, the face recognition instrument is used for collecting a face image of an operator, matching recognition is conducted according to the face image, and the electronic canning pile is connected with the liquid crystal operation screen. Whether an operator meets the requirement or not is judged, the control switch is controlled to be locked or opened according to the judgment result, face recognition can be carried out, and whether the filling certificate of the filling worker can actively communicate with the supervision system within the period of validity or not is checked.

46 BC001-77A2287DFF79 [80] Emergency equipment receptacle and alert notification system
This disclosure generally relates to an emergency equipment storage receptacle and alert system. When an active shooter or potential life or death situation should arise, an approved/authorized individual can access safely tools, weapons, first aid supplies, and safety equipment through a single or multi-step authentication process that may include using biometric data, while also contacting the local authorities in the area to alert that there is an active shooter in the facility.

47 BC001-DC75F8B09AB0 [80] Financial data real -time analysis device
The utility model discloses a financial data real -time analysis device, including the host computer, the host computer both sides are provided with the link, and inside is provided with the treater, upper portion and control console connection, be provided with display screen, input keyboard, fingerprint lockaid gun, wireless signal receiving and sending module on the operation panel, operation panel upper portion is provided with the pedestal, be provided with dustproof yardage roll on the pedestal, the host computer passes through wireless connectivity with the extension, be provided with on & off switch, page turning key dish, resistance screen, data line interface on the extension, the extension lower part is provided with the connecting seat, be provided with the sucking disc on the connecting seat. This financial data real -time analysis device can through the financial statement data storage of extension in with the computer to the storage module in, then through wireless signal receiving and sending module realize with the wireless data transmission of host computer, can gather financial data to through the analysis software analysis processes in the host computer, and can pass through fingerprint lockaid gun restricted for use scope, safe and reliable.

48 BC001-A56EA635FDAC [80] Finger print identifying firearms
The utility model discloses a firearm with fingerprint identification function comprising a power supply, a power supply switch which is connected with the power supply, a fingerprint sensor which is connected with the power supply switch and is used to collect fingerprint signal, a fingerprint identification module which is connected with the power supply switch and is used to receive the fingerprint signal collected by the fingerprint sensor and to judge whether the fingerprint signal is matched with a fingerprint sample which is pre-stored in the fingerprint identification module, an electrical control and mechanical bolt driving circuit is connected with the power supply switch and is used to drive an electrical control and mechanical bolt which is connected with the fingerprint identification module during the process of fingerprint matching and an electrical control and mechanical bolt, wherein the fingerprint sensor is arranged on the position where the finger is put when the firearm is held.

49 BC001-6C62CD9DCD56 [80] Fingerprint gun lock
The utility model belongs to the technical field of finger-print locks, relating to a finger-print gun lock which comprises a finger-print sensor, a finger-print distinguishing chip, a controlling microprocessor, a locating mechanism, a controlling push-button, a display device, a system power supply, a photoelectric switch and the like. The inner of a handle arranged on the left lateral of the lock is equipped with the finger-print sensor, the controlling push-button and the display device. The exposed portion of the left lateral of the lock is provided with a panel of the finger-print sensor, the controlling push-button, a red display LED and a green display LED. The inner surface of the right lateral of the handle is equipped with the finger-print distinguishing chip and the controlling microprocessor, and the rear of the handle is equipped with the system power supply and the photoelectric switch. The locating mechanism is arranged under a trigger of the gun, the locating mechanism employs a micro-motor and an actuating mechanism, after the controlling microprocessor conveys signals to the locating mechanism, the rotating of the micro-motor drives a spring bolt to move up and down, thereby the trigger of the gun can be closed or opened. The utility model has the beneficial effect that bandits can not shoot even through the gun is robed by the bandits, and thereby the purpose of safe and convenient use of guns can be achieved.

50 BC001-EC8A2D98ADF7 [80] Fingerprint safety lock for firearms
A locking system for firearms that utilizes an owner's fingerprint to lock and unlock it is disclosed. Upon initial observation of the invention, it appears like a conventional fire arm lock that goes around the trigger and immobilizes it. Fingerprint sensors are provided that will only acknowledge the fingerprint and thumb print of the gun owner. When the owner touches the sensors once, the present invention will unlock, and when they are touched again, it will lock. A small computerized chip, in conjunction with a lithium battery and an advancement mechanism such as a stepper motor perform the actual locking duties. The housing of the invention is made of titanium to prevent tampering.

51 BC001-12ADAEA72AF7 [80] Firearm i.e. smart gun, securing device, has fingerprint sensor testing whether authorization is present during presence of authorization information, and producing another information during presence of another authorization
Device for securing a firearm, comprising a first securing device which generates a first piece of authorization information when a first authorization is present, a second securing device which generates a second piece of authorization information when a second authorization is present, which can check whether a second authorization is present only when the first authorization information is present, and which generates a second authorization information when the second authorization is present.

52 BC001-576DA780832E [80] Firearm including biometric skin sensor
An electronic firearm comprises a barrel assembly and a handle assembly coupled to the barrel assembly. The handle assembly includes a grip portion defining a cavity and at least one opening disposed generally at a rear side of the grip portion, and a biometric sensing device disposed within the cavity and aligned with the at least one opening of the grip portion for scanning the skin of a portion of the user's hand opposing the opening to determine whether the user is authorized to discharge the electronic firearm.

53 BC001-3A197A3B0C40 [80] Firearm locking system
A locking system for a firearm is disclosed. A lock has a set state and an unset state, and substantial movement of any one or more fire control group components is inhibited with in the set state. A biometric sensor attachable to a grip of the firearm is receptive to an input biometric feature data set corresponding to a physiological feature of a user. A biometric input controller stores biometric feature data sets corresponding to enrolled user identities in a memory, and compares it against the input biometric feature data set to generate a biometric input validation status indicator signal. A proximity sensor attachable to the grip detects possession of the firearm by the user and generates a corresponding grip detection indicator signal.

54 BC001-3FEDD335FFC6 [80] Firearm safety system
A firearm safety system restricts the use of the firearm by reference to biometric data received by a sensor (23) coupled to the firearm trigger (26). The biometric data is compared to at least one record of biometric data associated with a permitted user to determine whether firearm actuation is permitted. Firearm actuation is controlled by an anchor (24) that is pivotally coupled to the firearm trigger (26). Firearm actuation is prevented when the anchor is extended between the trigger (26) and the trigger aperture (21). Firearm actuation is permited when the anchor (24) is retracted in response to a positive identification by the sensor (23).

55 BC001-9ABAC4743433 [80] Firearm safety system
A firearm safety system restricts the use of the firearm by reference to biometric data received by a sensor coupled to the firearm trigger. The biometric data is compared to at least one record of biometric data associated with a permitted user to determine whether firearm actuation is permitted. Firearm actuation is controlled by an anchor that is pivotally coupled to the firearm trigger. Firearm actuation is prevented when the anchor is extended between the trigger and the trigger aperture. Firearm actuation is permitted when the anchor is retracted in response to a positive identification by the sensor.

56 BC001-CAF0544782A3 [80] Firearm security block and firearm fitted therewith
The invention relates to locking devices preventing the unauthorized use of firearms. The invention provides a block, shaped partly as a normal magazine or a magazine or other shaped member which can be inserted into a firearm to block the magazine housing thereof or the barrel and which can be removed therefrom only by transmitting relevant biometric data to said block, said data corresponding with biometric data digitally stored in the block memory.

57 BC001-CA7B0B221CD0 [80] Firearm security device
A firearm security device removably connected to at least a portion of a firearm, the firearm security device including a biometric sensor to scan a physical characteristic of a user and send biometric data therefrom, a control unit running a program thereon and connected to the biometric sensor to compare the biometric data received from the biometric sensor to user data to determine whether the user is an authorized user of the firearm, and a locking pin disposed on a trigger bar of the firearm and connected to the control unit to prevent use of the firearm until the control unit determines the user is authorized to use the firearm.

58 BC001-927E1F23872F [80] Firearm system and method thereof
This invention relates to a firearm system using biometric fingerprint recognition technology to ensure exclusive operation by authorized individuals. The system integrates a distinct fingerprint scanner into the firearm's grip, allowing activation and firing solely by users with registered fingerprints. The design, functioning, and components of the biometric-enabled firearm system, bolstering security and thwarting unauthorized access. The system includes a biometric sensor 102, processor 106, database, user interface, and additional security features such as tamper detection and emergency override. It transforms firearm security by incorporating biometric authentication technology, setting a new standard for safety, accountability, and traceability in firearm usage.

59 BC001-18BFA232CF7B [80] Firearms information fingerprint intelligent management system
The invention discloses a gun information fingerprint intelligence management system, which includes guncabinet, biological fingerprint recognition confirmation unit and microcomputer information management unit, fingerprint recognition confirmation unit includes fingerprint sensor and fingerprint recognition control unit, microcomputer information management unit includes server, gun cabinet message control computer terminal, usercomputer terminal and information management system module, guncabinet message control computer terminal connected with gun cabinet, the gun cabinet message control computer terminal and the usercomputer terminal is separately connected with the server, information management system module connected with gun cabinet message controlcomputer terminal, fingerprint sensor connected with the fingerprintrecognition control unit; The gun cabinet electrically controlled lock connected with the fingerprint recognition control unit. This invention has the merit of guns information to be able the automatic immediate production and may realize long-distance sharing, the security which the guns manages is good, the guns deposit and withdrawal rapid convenience and may the long-distance control, especially be suitable to the public security organ uses.

60 BC001-532340A8F604 [80] GSM wireless remote fingerprint gate guard control system and computer remote control method
The invention relates to a GSM wireless remote fingerprint door access control system and belongs to the remote control system technical field. The GSM wireless remote fingerprint door access control system is characterized in that: the system comprises a central control computer, a control software, a main control communicator, a terminal communicator and a terminal door lock, the central control computer is connected with a fingerprint instrument and the main control communicator, the main control communicator is connected and communicated with the receiving terminal communicator through a GSM system, the terminal communicator is in control connection with the terminal door lock. The remote control method of the computer comprises: 1. a control program is stored into a storage of the central control computer; 2. the related information is entered; 3. the control program is started to enter the remote control state of the computer; 4. the disposition proposal is determined according to the actual condition when the message disposing the terminal door lock of the weapon base is received; 5. the locking and unlocking information of the terminal door lock within the set power-on time of the terminal door lock of the weapon base is monitored; 6. the state change of the terminal door lock of the remote control. The invention introduces and takes advantage of GSM communication technology, solves the safety demand of the troop to the remote control of the fingerprint door access, and realizes the remote control of the whole process of the weapon base.

61 BC001-F9425593B165 [80] Gun and bullet getting and returning and vein self-service authentication management system
The invention relates to a gun and bullet getting and returning and vein self-service authentication management system. The system is characterized by comprising a computer arranged in a gun cabinet, wherein the computer is connected with a palm vein acquisition instrument; the computer is further connected with a database server through a network line; the computer is further connected with a cabinet door control board of the gun cabinet, a cartridge clip lock and a gun lock through serial ports; and when personnel are authenticated, palm vein information is read through the palm vein acquisition instrument and sent to the database server to perform identity comparison, a cabinet door opening command is sent through a serial port when the identity is legal, a gun cabinet door is opened, and the corresponding cartridge clip lock and gun lock are opened. The system has the beneficial effects of simple structure, convenient use, high accuracy and strict management; and automatic control and vein authentication technologies are adopted, so that the problems of slow getting and returning, low authentication efficiency and the like of existing bullets are solved and the efficiency of gun and bullet getting and returning process and personnel identity authentication is improved.

62 BC001-871374AD2FF0 [80] Gun case with fingerprint reader
The invention relates to gun cases (1 ) for carrying guns, composed of a body (9), gun housing (10) and a locking unit (14); characterized in, for achieving a safety gun case (1 ), comprising at least one fingerprint reader part (2) configured on the body (9) forming the gun case (1 ), at least one control unit (13) to which fingerprint reading part (2) is programmed, a control unit (13) for unlocking/locking the locking unit (14) according to the fingerprint date taken from fingerprint identification/reader means (6) in fingerprint reader part (2) and at least one data entry unit (8) for programming the control unit (13) and making necessary adjustments.

63 BC001-9568D73FF47A [80] Gun housing locking control system
The purpose of the present invention is to provide a gun housing locking control system which can be attached to and detached from an existing gun housing, and enables access to a gun locker and discharge of a gun only to a worker authorized in real time according to a work schedule. The gun locker locking control system comprises: a photographing module(400) which is installed on an inner upper end of the gun housing and obtains image information when opening or closing of a door is sensed by a door opening/closing module(100); the door opening/closing module(100) provided with a first locking means(110) and a second locking means; a communication control module(500) which is provided on one side of the gun housing and transmits and receives information collected from the photographing module and the door opening/closing module to and from a headquarters center; a user registration module(600) for inputting personal information and biometric information of a person to be granted access authority to the gun locker; and an integrated communication control module(700) for monitoring whether the gun locker is opened or closed in real time. The present invention has the effect of providing a gun housing locking control system capable of more easily identifying and managing the current status in the gun housing.COPYRIGHT MOIP 2026

64 BC001-6E2F10E91894 [80] Gun in-place identification method
The invention relates to the field of ordnance theft prevention, and discloses a gun in-place identification method. The method comprises the steps of confirming an ammunition state in a cabinet, selecting an unlocking mode, authenticating, responding to equipment, reporting a drawer closing state, storing a log and detecting a gun in place. According to the gun in-place identification method, theproblem that the cabinet door of an existing intelligent gun and bullet cabinet can only be controlled through a physical lock and a fingerprint coded lock is solved, the authority of an operator canbe set, an alarm can be started and linked with a video monitor, an electromagnetic lock and a bullet drawer lock of a cabinet door can be controlled through an intelligent control panel, different identity verification modes can be selected, a light supplementing lamp is turned on during identity verification, the identification accuracy can be guaranteed, and when the drawer and the cabinet door are closed, the closing state of the drawer and the cabinet door can be reported, so that the use time and frequency can be recorded and made into a log, the gun in-place state can be quickly detected, and emergency handling is facilitated.

65 BC001-026F42CE8F7A [80] Gun inspection room system based on face recognition and voiceprint recognition
The invention provides a gun inspection room system based on face recognition and voiceprint recognition. The gun inspection room system based on face recognition and voiceprint recognition comprises a sound insulation room which is provided with a sound insulation mechanism, an access control device which is arranged at the entrance of the sound insulation room and comprises face recognition or/and voiceprint recognition, a gun model acquisition device which is arranged in the sound insulation room and is used for acquiring the model of the gun to be inspected, a recording device which comprises a microphone array and is used for extracting the audio signals of which the distances are within a preset threshold range as audio signals to be identified, and an audio comparison device which stores a standard gun inspection audio signal database associated with different types of guns and is used for calling the standard gun inspection audio signals of the types of the guns to be inspected, comparing the audio signals to be identified with the standard gun inspection audio signals and judging whether the gun inspection action is completed or not.

66 BC001-159575C8AED2 [80] Gun lock
A gun lock, for blocking the trigger of a gun, comprising a first and second armored part. The armored parts are locked to each other covering the trigger and is connected to a power source and contains switching means for switching between a locked and an unlocked state. Furthermore a biometric sensor and a processor are positioned inside one of the armored parts for processing the data from the biometric sensor and allowing unlocking if the data match data from allowed users. The locking beam and the at least one support beam is configured to be positioned on either side of the trigger inside the trigger guard when in a locked state. The two armored parts covers at least the trigger and trigger guard.

67 BC001-B360FC24E905 [80] Gun management device
The present invention relates to a gun management device, in which an RFID tag is embedded in a handle of a gun to identify a receipt and payment status and stock status of the gun by an RFID tag recognition unit when the gun is received or shipped, an individual recognition unit for recognizing biometric information (iris body or finger vein) of each gun user who can operate a locking device is installed on a gun holder, and an individual gun electronic lock sensor is installed to determine whether the gun is used through three ways of individual recognition, RFID tag recognition, and electronic lock sensor detection. The present invention relates to the gun management device, in which a gun holder (1) is provided to mount a gun in a certain place such as a military base, an individual recognition unit (2) for recognizing biometric information (iris body or finger vein) is provided on one side of the gun holder (1), each gun handle (4) mounted on the gun holder (1) is provided with an RFID tag recognition unit (3) and an RFID reader (6) for recognizing an RFID tag, a control unit (7) is connected to the RFID reader (6), the individual recognition unit (2), and an individual gun electronic lock sensor (5), the control unit (5) is connected to a memory unit (5) for storing inventory status such as stocking and shipping of the gun, and a control room (10) is connected to an output terminal of the control unit (5) through an external communication interface unit (9).COPYRIGHT KIPO 2023

68 BC001-B93352D454CB [80] Handgun, fitted with a fingerprint thermo scanner and software, ensures that the weapon cannot be fired by an unauthorized user
"a hand firearm consisting of a weapon barrel, grip or stock, breech system, weapon lock with trigger and safety device, sighting devices and possibly additionally more loading device, is equipped with an identifying device consisting of at least one sensor circuit and logic/microcomputer circuit (s), which forms a logic module/component designed in a discrete or integrated, for example modular, structure, an operating power supply, and actuator (s), advantageously supplemented by at least one peripheral hardware element, module redundancy, signal indication, all functionally coupled by suitable software, signal and supply bus, equipped with an electronic system serving for access to lockable, functionally relevant parts or subassemblies of the hand firearm, characterized in that the sensor circuit (s) is/are connected to, one or more sensors arranged as direct, touch-active interface of a user to the weapon with the aid of at least one finger or other suitable body parts and uniquely identifying the legal authorized user is/are equipped with suitable software and supply bus as input stage. "

69 BC001-CF844DE374E5 [80] Intelligence firearms management device
The utility model discloses an intelligence firearms management device, including cabinet, the rifle headstock, gun platform sensor, base, intelligence door, fingerprint lock, computer, observation window, key hole, handle, first intelligence lock, reinforcement disc and second intelligence lock, the inside of cabinet is equipped with the base, and the upper surface of base is equipped with the gun platform sensor, and the positive upper end of gun platform sensor is equipped with the rifle headstock, install intelligence door on the cabinet, an intelligence door from the top down is equipped with fingerprint lock, computer, observation window, key hole and handle in proper order, be equipped with first intelligence lock and second intelligence lock on the corresponding position of handle. This intelligence firearms management device adopts the double gun of laying, and it is bigger that the messenger holds the space, and the intelligent machine lock has reduced the waste of manpower resources, has alleviateed intensity of labour, and is safe practical.

70 BC001-05EB222A5885 [80] Intelligence rifle lock
The utility model discloses an intelligence rifle lock, including the intelligent control ware, fingerprint identification device, locking mechanical system, sensor, storage device, data interface, mechanical tool to lock, alarm, power supply, control button and pilot lamp. Fingerprint identification device, locking mechanical system, the sensor, storage device, data interface, mechanical tool to lock, the alarm, power supply, control button and pilot lamp are connected with the intelligent control ware, and the fingerprint identification information in storage device will be saved to intelligent control ware ability, information that whether locking mechanical system locked, locking mechanical system 0 deposits storage device in real time in. This intelligence rifle lock accessible fingerprint identification or mechanical tool to lock are unblanked, and the security performance improves greatly, and have the function of can the storage record gun getting the circumstances of depositing.

71 BC001-41868347FA3C [80] Intelligent firearms management library system
The utility model discloses an intelligent firearms management library system, which comprises a camera, a video intercom system, a door library management instrument, a door magnetic detector, an infrared detector, a check switch, a password, a fingerprint lock, electronic tags, a duty center control system, a host computer, a data storage system and an uninterruptible power supply, wherein the camera is connected with the duty center control system and is arranged outside the library door; the video intercom system is connected with the host computer and is arranged outside the library door; the door library management instrument is connected with the host computer and is arranged on the library door; the door magnetic detector is connected with the host computer; the infrared detector is connected with the host computer; the check switch, the password and the fingerprint lock are respectively connected with the host computer, and are arranged on the library door; the electronic tags are adhered to the stored firearms; the uninterruptible power supply is connected with the door library management instrument; and the host computer is connected with the data storage system. The intelligent firearms management library system has the advantages that the functional requirements provided by customers are met to the maximal extent; the intelligent firearms management library system is high in sensitivity and reliability, and has the living fingerprint detection capability; and cheating of somebody is prevented.

72 BC001-0D2637E02AF4 [80] Intelligent firearms management system
Intelligent guns management system comprises some foreground management systems 1, data maintenance computer management system 2, monitor background computer management system 3, background service center 4 and communication network 5 to connect all the systems aforementioned; wherein, foreground management systems 1 comprises bullet box 6, electric lock for guns 7, drawer with electric lock 8, IC card sensor 9, fingerprint device 10 and foreground industry-control microcomputer system 11, which mainly sees to operation of taking gun, operation of returning gun and monitor the guns box real-time; system 2 takes operation with newly adding, modifying, cancelling for data of guns material, policeman material, IC card data, fingerprint data and department data; system 3 monitors the state to take and return guns and alarms of system 1, and affirms the newly added or modified material from system 2; service center 4 is the computer server, sees to store and process some data affairs, which makes the management to simple, accurate easy, and with higher efficiency, effect, and perfect function.

73 BC001-DDE6DAE00B5F [80] Intelligent gun lock
The utility model discloses an intelligent gun lock. Gun lock comprising a gun lock body, the gun lock body is provided with an intelligent controller, a fingerprint recognition device, a storage device, a data interface, a mechanical lock, an alarm, a power supply, a control key and an indicator lamp. A locking groove is formed in one side of the gun lock main body; a gun lock automatic driving lock hook matched with the mechanical lock is mounted in the locking groove; a circular placement groove is formed in the inner wall of one side, far away from the opening, of the locking groove; a fixing shaft is welded to the inner wall of the side, away from the opening, of the circular containing groove, a clamping groove is formed in the side, close to the opening, of the fixing shaft, clamping bases elastically hinged to the fixing shaft are arranged on the four sides of the clamping groove, the four clamping bases are jointly fixed to the same clamping block, and the clamping block and the clamping groove are movably installed. The locking device is economical and practical, and the sensor is simple to disassemble in the locking groove, so that the sensor is convenient to replace.

74 BC001-3B77E6CB3B9A [80] Intelligent gun management system
The invention relates to an intelligent gun management system, which consists of an intelligent fingerprint gun cabinet, a fingerprint control circuit and management software and is characterized in that the intelligent fingerprint gun cabinet consists of the following parts: a metal cabinet body, a door magnet, a mechanical and electric control double-control lock, and a gun bracket, wherein the mechanical and electric control double-control lock and the gun bracket are fixed in the metal cabinet body, and a fingerprint integral machine is fixed on a panel of the intelligent gun cabinet. The intelligent gun management system is characterized in that a power supply system performs power cut monitoring and alarming, the fingerprint gun cabinet is provided with a backup power supply which alarms when the external power supply is cut off; a networking line performs broken line monitoring and alarming, which alarms when the networking line of the fingerprint gun cabinet and a control center is interrupted; the system alarms when the communication line between the gun cabinets is cut off; when the fingerprint gun cabinet is not opened normally and a gun is taken away, the system alarms; if the fingerprint gun cabinet is opened illegally and the gun is taken away, the system alarms; if the gun is taken without identity authentication, or the gun not according with the identity is taken away, the system alarms; and if the number of the guns is unusual, the system alarms.

75 BC001-2087999C36B0 [80] Intelligent gun security lock
The utility model discloses an intelligent gun security lock which comprises a left lock seat and a right lock seat which are interlocked. The left lock seat and the right lock seat can be fixed and clamped to the position of a trigger of a gun after being interlocked. The right lock seat comprises a lock rack and a lock seat shell. The lock seat shell is provided with a fingerprint collection board. The lock rack and the lock seat shell are fixedly connected into a whole, and a containing cavity is formed inside the space formed after the lock rack and the lock seat shell are connected into a whole. A locking mechanism, an intelligent fingerprint processing module and a motor are installed in the containing cavity. The left lock seat is provided with a spring bolt which can extend into the containing cavity of the right lock seat and is matched with the locking mechanism in a locking mode. The fingerprint collection board, the intelligent fingerprint processing module and the motor are in electrical signal connection. The intelligent gun security lock is unlocked in a fingerprint identification mode, the safety performance is higher, locking and unlocking can be achieved rapidly, operation is easy and convenient, and use is more reliable.

76 BC001-7D63E1C50FD6 [80] Intelligent identification gun
The invention belongs to the field of military industry and particularly relates to an intelligent identification gun. The gun comprises a grip and an actuating mechanism. The actuating mechanism comprises a gun locking device, a personnel identification device, a power source and a circuit. The personnel identification device is electrically connected with the gun locking device through the circuit and comprises an RFID unit and a fingerprint identification unit. The RFID unit comprises a personnel information verification end and a personnel information record end. The gun can be precisely managed through an intelligent grip system, and the management authority of the gun is limited within a smaller range; meanwhile, the using timeliness of the gun is fully optimized, and operation is convenient and efficient like a traditional gun; and the intelligent grip system adopts fingerprints and the RFID technology, the gun insurance can be removed through fingerprints of a user or an ID ring worn by the user, and the gun is automatically locked again when the grip is out of a hand, so that the situation that the gun is used by others is avoided.

77 BC001-E49966815E64 [80] Intelligent management system and method of file management center
The invention relates to the technical field of information management and particularly discloses an intelligent management system and method of a file management center. The intelligent management system of the file management center comprises a main control system, a fingerprint collector, a two-dimensional code printer, a scanning gun and a file storage cabinet. The main control system generates file number two-dimensional codes and outputs the file number two-dimensional codes to the two-dimensional code printer for printing, the two-dimensional code scanning gun scans the file number two-dimensional codes to identify files, and the fingerprint collector collects police's fingerprints and sends the police's fingerprints to the main control system for comparison; the purposes are achieved that when policemen operate out-put and in-put register of the files, the exclusive file storage cabinet of the policemen is automatically opened in a fingerprint inputting mode so that the files can be taken or returned; intelligent management of the public security organization file management center is achieved, the blank of intelligent management of an existing public security organizationhandling unit file management center is filled in, the working efficiency of the file management center is greatly improved, and flow safety of file materials is guaranteed.

78 BC001-052D30A4DBB9 [80] Intelligent recognition gun
The utility model belongs to the military project field, concretely relates to intelligent recognition gun. Gun include handle and actuating mechanism, actuating mechanism includes gun locking device, personnel recognition device, power and circuit, personnel recognition device with gun locking device passes through the circuit electricity federation, personnel recognition device includes RFID unit and fingerprint identification unit, the RFID unit includes that personnel information verifies end and personnel information record end. Intelligence handle system can realize the accurate management of gun, injects the administration authority of gun at littleer within range, has done abundant optimization simultaneously in the promptness that gun used, and the operation impression is like the same convenient and fast of traditional gun, intelligence handle system's adoption fingerprint and RFID technique, the user can relieve the gun insurance through fingerprint of oneself or the ID ring of wearing, just can lock automatically again when openhanded hold of handle gun, avoids gun to be used by other people.

79 BC001-3DCA0BA65465 [80] Iot based smart surveillance security system with automatic sanitization
In this current pandemic period, safety is the most preferred requirement by human society as there is threat to life both because of crimes or thefts as well as diseases such as COVID-19. In this invention, an integrated system is proposed which is able to provide security to human life from criminals with hidden metal guns or any other weapon creating threat to life and human along with which involves a sanitizing device controlled by IoT (Internet of Things) for avoiding spread of pandemic disease. Surveillance system consists of metal detector which is able to detect presence of metal weapons hidden in non-metal closures which in turn alert authenticated officials about the presence of metal detection. Then, temperature sensor is used to detect temperature continuously for each person and alerts by beep sound when it crosses threshold fixed as normal temperature of human body as 37 degree Celsius. After a delay of 30 seconds, automatic sanitizer device dispenses the sanitizer after which the person will be able to use the biometric device once the lock is opened for accessing the system.

80 BC001-D67AC2E0CFF6 [80] Lightweight trigger mechanism-based instant threat early warning and active traceability deterrence method and system in power system network
The invention discloses an instant threat early warning and active traceability deterrence method and system based on a lightweight trigger mechanism in a power system network, and relates to the field of power system network security. According to the method, a light load trip line is preset at a key node, a suspicious attack log is generated in combination with a hidden Markov model, and multi-channel instant early warning is triggered; extracting multi-dimensional fingerprints of a browser, hardware and a special network weapon to construct a warehouse, and generating three types of flight fragments of deep acquisition, remote control and vulnerability repair for precise delivery; and performing confusion packing processing on the control software, and realizing active traceability deterrence in a matching/non-matching mode. According to the invention, threat identification accuracy and response speed are improved, an active defense closed loop is formed, and the method is suitable for security protection of a power system network.

81 BC001-9DBF97AC2FCF [80] Lockable gun mount
A lockable gun mount features a stock receiver, a trigger block, and a barrel lock. The stock receiver includes a base, sidewalls, a receiving aperture, and one or more fasteners. The trigger block includes a trigger rod and a wall member. The barrel lock includes a wall member, a hinged door coupled to the wall member, and a locking mechanism configured to secure the hinged door to the wall member. In some examples, the barrel lock further includes a biometric sensor. A cumulative force between the stock receiver, the trigger receiver, and the barrel lock prevents the gun from being removed from the lockable gun mount when secured to a wall or flat surface.

82 BC001-737A719C80AA [80] Machine including vibration and shock resistant fingerprint sensor and related methods
A machine includes a mechanical linkage and or drive coupled to a housing and generating at least one of shock and vibration when functioning. The machine further includes an integrated circuit fingerprint sensor carried by the housing and being resistant to at least one of shock and vibration, and an enabling circuit for selectively enabling functioning of the linkage/drive based upon sensing a fingerprint of an authorized machine operator by the integrated circuit fingerprint sensor. Accordingly, only authorized operators may use the machine. Moreover, the integrated fingerprint sensor is shock and vibration resistant so that it can be coupled to the machine housing and still function accurately and reliably. The enabling circuit may also include a memory for storing data related to at least one fingerprint for at least one authorized operator, and may determine matching of a sensed fingerprint with the stored data. The machine may also be a firearm which generates a substantial shock upon firing. The integrated circuit fingerprint sensor may be carried by the housing and may cooperate with the firearm safety lock to allow only an authorized user to fire the firearm.

83 BC001-A2D74B75903F [80] Man-machine interaction auxiliary method and system for operating underwater weapon equipment
The application discloses a man-machine interaction auxiliary method and a system for operating underwater weapon equipment, wherein the method comprises the steps of collecting electromyographic signals, holding pressure signals and torque feedback signals to generate multichannel operation signal streams; the method comprises the steps of extracting a characteristic vector, determining an operation intention type, generating an operation node sequence, monitoring position deviation quantity, generating a guiding force instruction, controlling a force feedback device to generate tangential traction force or normal vibration force, collecting heart rate variability signals and galvanic skin response signals, evaluating cognitive load grades, dynamically adjusting guiding force amplitude and time window, switching an emergency braking mode when abnormal working conditions are detected, and calling an emergency operation path. The system comprises a physiological signal acquisition module, an intention recognition module, a force feedback guiding module, a state self-adaption module, a parameter learning module and an emergency safety module. According to the application, the operation behavior is directly guided through force feedback, and the reliability and safety of the operation of the underwater weapon equipment are improved by combining the cognitive load dynamic adjustment and personalized learning.

84 BC001-6A4BB74FAED2 [80] Method and apparatus for secure issuance of secure firearm identification credentials
The invention brings together the components of digital image capture and digital fingerprint capture to both speed up and make more secure the process of applying for a firearm permit and the process of issuing a firearm permit. Biometric data captured, such as face and finger, is used in both verifying the applicant's asserted identity (biometric verification) and in ensuring the applicant is not a member of a group (or database) of individuals who should not be granted a permit (biometric identification). Furthermore, the invention discusses issuing a credential that is inherently more secure than printed and laminated credentials that are ubiquitous today. The invention simultaneously improves service to residents via reduced credential issuance timelines, improves the security of who is issued a firearm credential, and improves the integrity of the firearm credential.

85 BC001-7B265B30DE83 [80] Method of monitoring and trigger-locking a firearm
A method of monitoring and trigger-locking a firearm prevents unauthorized persons from firing the firearm. When a person picks up the firearm, a biometric scanner retrieves an unidentified biometric reading off of the person. The biometric scanner can be a palm-print reader and/or a fingerprint reader. If the unidentified biometric reading does not match an authorized user signature stored on a chipset of the firearm, and if the firearm has unlocked its trigger, then the firearm automatically locks its trigger. In addition, the firearm generates and broadcasts an unauthorized-use notification with a wireless communication module. If the unidentified biometric reading does match an authorized user signature stored on the chipset, and if the firearm has locked its trigger, then firearm automatically unlocks its trigger. The firearm also collects situational data from environmental sensors when the firearm discharges a round.

86 BC001-6E043F82DB87 [80] Methods, devices, and systems for facilitating firearms safety
Methods, systems, and devices for facilitating firearms safety are provided. A multi-factor authentication is performed to verify an identity of a user trying to access a secure firearm. Presence of a user contact with the secure firearm is detected, the secure firearm being in a locked state. Upon detecting the presence of the user contact with the firearm, the user is prompted to enter a passcode via a keypad on the secure firearm. Also, a biometric attribute of the user is obtained by a biometric sensor on the secure firearm. It is determined, if the user is an authorized user based on the passcode entered by the user and the biometric attribute of the user. In response to determining that the user is the authorized user, the secure firearm is unlocked.

87 BC001-BC206626D43A [80] Multifunctional practical training experience device
Disclosed is a multifunctional practical training experience device. The device comprises a perceiving module, a network module, and an application module. The perceiving module comprises an IP camera, an infrared detector, a combustion gas detector, a humiture detector, an illumination detector, a smog detector, an air quality detector, a door magnet, a door lock, a fingerprint gatherer, an RFID card reader, a one-dimensional scan gun and a plurality of data collectors. The network module comprises a lighting lamp, an sudden stop button, an intelligent gateway, a wireless AP, and a plurality of program download boards. The infrared detector is in communication connection with the intelligent gateway through a Zigbee network. The application module comprises a flat computer, an alarm, a ventilation fan, a curtain, a plurality of character liquid crystal displays, a plurality of lamp bases and a plurality of sockets. The IP camera is connected to the intelligent gateway through the Ethernet or the wireless AP. The device combines the perceiving module, the network module and the application module together, meets the practical training and experience combined teaching requirements in colleges, meets the requirements of intelligent home furnishing of enterprises, and has the characteristics of being simple in structure and low in cost.

88 BC001-312DB23BD6CA [80] Private pile plug-and-play method and system based on Bluetooth device fingerprint authentication technology
The invention provides a private pile plug-and-play method and system based on a Bluetooth equipment fingerprint authentication technology. The method comprises the following steps: performing Bluetooth pairing authentication on a charging pile side and a user terminal according to configuration information; opening a plug-and-play process according to the application of the authenticated user terminal; executing a plug-and-play process according to the gun insertion state; the configuration information and the equipment information of the user terminal passing the authentication are encrypted and stored in an edge safety protection area of the charging pile, so that data tampering prevention is realized; according to the method and the system, through security pairing authentication of a charging pile side to a user terminal, information security protection of an edge security protection area and execution of a plug-and-play process after the authentication is passed, three-party cooperation of a private charging pile, a charging operation platform and the user terminal can be realized; the technical problems of authentication security in the charging process and security and tampering prevention of information at the charging pile end are solved, and the experience of plug-and-play charging during secure charging of the private car is achieved.

89 BC001-C2DD5C275BDB [80] Real-time human in loop authorization device for autonomous weapon engagement control
The invention is the first fully functional safety control niechanism - the Real-Time Human-in-Loop Authorization Device - controlling engagement for autonomous weapon systems. Concerning the ethics and strategy involved, the device acts as a necessary buffer so that no weapon can be discharged without human approval. The device works by command request and target information relay from' the autonomous system'. The, device displays on the screen soiled, classified, and collated information to make the operator fully aware of the' situation which includes, target information, engagement success, and criteria for solution delivery. The device preserves the perimeter of human control and the use ofjudgment to disengage the fiilly autonomous system from control to avoid escalation and collateral consequences. This compact device employs various technologies to enable and ensure fast and sate interaction. These technologies include indicator lights for instant status notifications; communication interfaces for effective data transfer to and from the weapon system; and an additional interface to accept external modules with advanced security features that include biometric and data encryption systems. Central to the device's design is the marked Authorization Button. It is the only element that can trigger the transmission of the final 'engage' command, thereby introducing a human veto to the kill chain. The device's design is automated system command control, representing the only solution that provides the participation of a human and authorizes the use of force

90 BC001-EAD37A2B9B33 [80] Remote managing method and apparatus for firearm
A remote management method for a firearm according to the present invention includes a step of monitoring whether a release event from a firearm storage place is generated by a firearm supporting a selective firing mode based on a fingerprint recognition, a step of tracking whether the released firearm is out of a predetermined permission area when the release event is generated; and a step of giving warning of the AWOL of the release firearm when the released firearm is out of the predetermined permission area.So, safety accidents can be prevented.COPYRIGHT KIPO 2017

91 BC001-650A29B87DEF [80] Remove intelligent firearms management system based on it is on -vehicle
The utility model discloses a remove intelligent firearms management system based on it is on -vehicle, including on -vehicle intelligent gun cabinet, mobile terminal and server end, on -vehicle intelligent gun cabinet includes biological recognition module, wireless communication module, central processing unit and on -vehicle intelligent gun cabinet body, biological recognition module includes any one kind or wherein two kinds any combination or three kinds of overall combinations in discernment of fingerprint identification, iris or the sound film discernment, on -vehicle intelligent gun cabinet's wireless communication module, mobile terminal is through GPRS or WIFI and the server end is connected and exchange of data information, the data of central processing unit processing server end transmission, this internal structure of placing firearms that is provided with of on -vehicle intelligent gun cabinet, server end receive mobile terminals and central processing unit's data, the utility model provides a security of firearms management had both been satisfied, and a remove intelligent firearms management system based on it is on -vehicle of the convenience of firearms can be accomplished to use under the interim emergency again.

92 BC001-B504C6FA8077 [80] Rifle
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To provide a rifle capable of releasing a safety device after authenticating a user.SOLUTION: A scope 101 is provided with an iris photographing camera 102 for photographing an iris image and an eyepiece sensor 103 detecting to approach to an eye. This rifle is provided with a data selection part 105 selecting iris data from the iris image photographed by the iris photographing camera 102, a registered data storage part 106 registering the iris data of a user, an authentication part 107 comparing to the registered iris data, a control part 104 controlling the safety device according to the success/failure of the authentication and the state of the eyepiece sensor, the safety device 108 controllable by the control part, an input part 109 performing operations in registering and deleting the user, and a display part 110 displaying the success/failure of the authentication and operation state.COPYRIGHT: (C)2003,JPO

93 BC001-DD87FD922121 [80] Safety device and method for weapons and cartridges
The invention relates to a method and a device for firing a cartridge (3) for weapons and to a method and a device for safeguarding the firing of a cartridge for weapons. The invention provides a cartridge that comprises a safety mechanism. In another preferred embodiment, the weapon reads an identification from the cartridge and uses said identification, together with additional data to calculate a cartridge password. The latter is transmitted to the cartridge, which then decides whether or not to fire. The invention therefore provides devices and methods, which safeguard the weapon against inadvertent and/or unauthorised use. In addition, the inventive device and method also safeguard the cartridge against inadvertent, improper and/or unauthorised firing. Biometric data of the operator, such as a fingerprint, can also be used in the calculation of the cartridge password.

94 BC001-62128E528B19 [80] Safety device for a rifle
Safety device for a rifle, characterized by a biometric sensor (13) arranged on a part of the rifle and an actuating device (15) coupled to the biometric sensor (13), by means of which a locking mechanism (2) for releasably blocking a magazine shaft and/or locking a closure can be actuated as a function of the data determined by the biometric sensor (13).

95 BC001-2D41042AFB7D [80] Safety device for a rifle
The invention relates to a safety device for a rifle having a biometric sensor (13) arranged on a part of the rifle and a control device (15) coupled to the biometric sensor (13), by means of which a locking mechanism (2) for releasably blocking a magazine shaft and/or locking a closure can be actuated as a function of the data determined by the biometric sensor (13).

96 BC001-82CA79A3E9D8 [80] Safety mechanism retrofittable into existing firearms without changing external shape of firearm
A modular safety device configured for retrofitting a firearm, the firearm having a barrel including a muzzle and a chamber at a distal end of the barrel, the modular safety device comprising a blocking rod configured to fit inside the barrel including inside the chamber and to block entry of a cartridge into the chamber, the blocking rod having a lock configured to lockingly affix a locking portion of the lock to the barrel; and a biometric identification system integral to a proximal end of the blocking rod adjacent the muzzle and having a user interface surface accessible for a user to input biometric data of the user, wherein the safety device is configured to be within the firearm such that addition of the safety device to the firearm either does not alter an external shape of the firearm or merely juts slightly out of the muzzle.

97 BC001-7A39832F955A [80] Securing mechanisms for preventing access to a firearm by unauthorized users, and safety housings for use therewith
A securing mechanism for use in a holster, gun safe, base station, recharging/docking station, gun rack, or other safety housing for a firearm or other item, including one or more retaining members that engage the trigger guard, barrel, or other part of the firearm to prevent withdrawal of the firearm from the safety housing by anyone other than an authorized user of the firearm. The securing mechanism includes a biometric identification mechanism such as a fingerprint sensor for scanning fingerprint information of a prospective user of the firearm, and a processor for comparing the scanned biometric information with stored biometric information of an authorized user and releasing the retaining member only if the scanned biometric information matches that of the authorized user.

98 BC001-B4286AFDEF01 [80] Security Case with Pressure Sensitive Fingerprint Authentication Module
[Problem] To provide a security case with a pressure sensitive fingerprint authentication module that is suitable for use in a fixed gun locker, a portable gun case, a storage cabinet for actual packaging, a vault, a handhold cabinet, a lend cabinet, a document case, a case for USB, a box for valuable goods in a hotel room, or the like. Resolution Means: An electronic device including a lock mechanism that drives a plunger that can move forward and backward using a drive mechanism such as a solenoid or a motor drive, a sensor unit 3 that reads a fingerprint, a registration unit 82 that registers fingerprint data, and an authentication unit 81 for the registered fingerprint data, and a control unit 8 that releases the lock mechanism by authentication confirmation. Furthermore, the flexible sheet to be adhered to the sensor unit surface is formed of a laminate of a plurality of ultrathin PET films or the like, and the pressure sensitive fingerprint authentication module 100 is mounted by interposing a vapor deposition film of a conductive substance in the laminate. Selected Drawing: FIG.2

99 BC001-B73EDD1DA08A [80] Security system for adaptive stadium access
A security system for adaptive stadium access, the system comprising a gate-like structure 101 on motorized tracked wheels 102 to enable horizontal movement to entry and exit of the stadium, sliding motorized gates 103 to enable controlled entry and exit to the stadium, an artificial intelligence (AI) camera 104 for identity verification during entry, a facial feature detection sensor to accurately identify key facial landmarks, an infrared face recognition sensor to ensure reliable detection in various lighting conditions, an X-ray baggage inspection unit 105 to inspect individuals and baggage, a metal detectors and image recognition sensors for identifying sharp tools, firearms, restricted items, a speaker to broadcast an alert upon detection of prohibited items on the individual or the baggage, a touch screen display screen 110 for multimodal verification, and a ticket providing unit 111 to facilitate smooth transactions.

100 BC001-0D25C7908494 [80] Self-service book borrowing device based on face recognition and ID card recognition
The invention discloses a self-service book borrowing device based on face recognition and ID card recognition. The self-service book borrowing device comprises an ID card recognizer, a camera, a facerecognizer, a citizen book borrowing database, a central processing unit, an electronic scanning gun and a voice control module, wherein the camera is connected with the face recognizer; both the face recognizer and the ID card recognizer are connected with the citizen book borrowing information database; the citizen book borrowing database is connected with the central processing unit; the electronic scanning gun is connected with the central processing unit; the voice control module is connected with the central processing unit. The self-service book borrowing device has the beneficial effects as follows: operation during real-name book borrowing is facilitated, manpower can be saved because of self-service book borrowing, the operation is simple and the time is saved.

101 BC001-EE8C517604F6 [80] Self-service unattended warehouse management system
The utility model relates to a self-service unattended warehouse management system comprising a personal computer (PC) client terminal which is arranged at the inlet of a warehouse, a barcode printer which is used for manufacturing barcode labels, a barcode scanning gun which is used for scanning the barcode labels for the stock-in and the stock-out of materials, a video server which is used for storing video information, a high-definition camera which is used for monitoring the materials in the warehouse in real time and recording video, a fingerprint access which is used for managing personnel and controlling a door lock, a radio frequency (RF) hand-held terminal which is used for counting inventories and calibrating asset information and a central data server which is used for managing data files in a centralized way; the barcode printer, the barcode scanning gun and the RF hand-held terminal are connected with the PC client terminal through a data cable; and the PC client terminal, the video server, the fingerprint access and the high-definition camera are connected with the central data server through a network switch. According to the self-service unattended warehouse management system, the stock-in and the stock-out of the materials can be recorded in real time, reports on the stock-in, sale, storage and the like of the materials in the warehouse are provided, the inventory efficiency and accuracy are improved, and a self-service unattended mode is realized.

102 BC001-83DE0424D73E [80] Ship production workshop safety monitoring device and method and computer equipment
The invention relates to a ship production workshop safety monitoring device and method and computer equipment. According to the application, the video stream, the sound data and the environmental parameters are acquired through the multi-mode monitoring terminal, and the procedure exclusive behavior recognition module performs special illegal behavior recognition, so that precise monitoring of procedures such as welding, coating, hoisting and the like is realized, and the recognition accuracy of the special illegal behaviors is improved. When a suspected illegal behavior is detected, the system automatically triggers the authority face recognition camera to carry out secondary verification of the identity and the operation authority of the person, so that closed-loop control of behavior recognition-identity verification-authority verification is realized, and the safety risk caused by operation of an unauthorized person is effectively avoided. The industrial-grade super computer carries out centralized processing on identification results and sends violation information to the grading early warning module, and the grading early warning module carries out three-stage grading early warning and corresponding processing measures according to violation risk grades, so that automation and timeliness of a response mechanism are realized, and safety management is promoted.

103 BC001-CEA51D95C8EF [80] Sighting mechanism for fire arms
The invention relates to a sighting mechanism (1) for fire arms, comprising a video camera (2), a video screen (8), a digital sighting distance meter (3), at least one sensor (4, 5) for measuring environment, cartridge and/or weapon parameters, at least one biometric sensor (6), at least one memory module (7) for biometric data and/or munitions data and a digital computer (10). Said novel sighting device (1) is characterised in that at least two video cameras (2) are arranged in a parallel manner in relation to each other and capture the target sighting field, the computer (10) comprises at least two video input points and an image processing unit enabling the video image data to be superimposed in real time in a pixel precise manner in relation to the target field and can be reproduced on the screen, and the computer (10) comprises a ballistic computer which enables the target image to reproduced on the screen (8), and a graticule (8'), which is arranged in said superimposed screen or on the screen (8), can be positioned in an automatic manner and in real time according to the incoming data, such that the position of the graticule (8') in the target field corresponds to a real projectile point of impact.

104 BC001-B8C5007D024B [80] Smart biometric access control system for firearm (0.32 caliber revolver)
A safety device 100 for a firearm is disclosed. The safety device comprising a holster 102 having a cavity 104 to accommodate the firearm; a retention means 106 configured within the cavity 104 to lock the firearm within the cavity 104 when the firearm is inserted into the cavity 104; a biometric unit 108 to sense a biometric feature of a user; and control unit having a processor to: compare the sensed biometric feature by the biometric unit 108 with pre stored biometric features stored in a database, and generate an actuation signal when the sensed biometric feature matches with any of the pre-stored biometric features, and an alert signal when the sensed biometric feature fails to match with any of the pre-stored biometric features. The retention means 106, on receipt of the actuation signal, is adapted to unlock the firearm to allow withdrawal of the firearm from the holster 102.

105 BC001-933E6016FD63 [80] Sniper rifle
The utility model relates to the field of creating a special sniper rifle for conducting targeted operations against enemy terrorist groups near our border and within the country, and also is capable of engaging low-flying air targets (helicopters, UAVs), external equipment of enemy tanks and armored personnel carriers, snipers and is a weapon of small airborne units, long-range infantry reconnaissance groups, etc. In the 75 years since the end of the Second World War, many different models of sniper rifles have been created in the world. This firearm device contains a means of protection against firing by an unregistered person, and has a means of information storage consisting of an image in an electronic system for controlling the firing from the presented weapon, and also stores a special code connected to each bullet fired and a laser system for forming a laser beam that ignites the charge for firing the bullet. Furthermore, the means for protecting the weapon contains physical information intended for allowing the firing from this firearm. Here, physical information is the fingerprint of a person about to use a given firearm, through which that person can be identified. The inventive firearm device comprises a digital camera, a microphone for recording sound and a clock for recording real time, wherein the instruments are mounted along the barrel for recording images used for firing shots and said information gathering means are arranged on the rear working surface of the weapon handle element. The utility model relates to the field of creating a special sniper rifle for conducting targeted operations against enemy terrorist groups near our border and within the country, and also is capable of engaging low-flying air targets (helicopters, UAVs), external equipment of enemy tanks and armored personnel carriers, snipers and is a weapon of small airborne units, long-range infantry reconnaissance groups, etc. In the 75 years since the end of World War II, the world has produced many different models of sniper rifles. The inventive firearm device comprises a means for protecting against firing by an unregistered person and comprises an information storing means which consists of an image contained in an electronic system for controlling the firing of the presented weapon and stores a special code connected to each fired bullet and a laser system for forming a laser beam igniting the bullet firing charge. Furthermore, the means for protecting a firearm comprises physical information intended for permitting the firing of the firearm in question. Here, physical information is the fingerprint of a person about to use a given firearm, through which that person can be identified. The inventive firearm device comprises a digital camera, a microphone for recording sound and a clock for recording real time, wherein the instruments are mounted along the barrel for recording images used for firing shots and said information gathering means are arranged on the rear working surface of the weapon handle element.

106 BC001-0E213F85F95A [80] System and apparatus for securing an item using a biometric lock
A system and apparatus for securing an item using a biometric lock where a matching fingerprint allows a user access to the item secured. In one embodiment, the item is a container with an aperture. More specifically, the container is a handbag, luggage, briefcase, computer bag, storage container, shipping container or gun holster. In one embodiment, the biometric lock apparatus is self contained and is applied to the item being secured. More specifically, the self contained biometric lock is a padlock, bicycle lock, or an independent lock with a shackle applied to an item. In one embodiment, the biometric lock is divided into multiple components, one component being a biometric key containing a sensor where a user inserts the key into another component of the lock and applies a finger to the sensor to read a matching fingerprint and unlock the mechanism. In one embodiment, the systems and apparatuses include utilizing an unlocking apparatus that contains a generator whereby the swiping of a fingerprint over a sensor simultaneously moves a thumb roller which activates the generator to power the device, and a fingerprint is initially installed through the use of an external computer and a secondary power source.

107 BC001-62F8F4E8D123 [80] System and method for monitoring and securing a military weapon
A system (100) for monitoring and securing a military weapon is disclosed. A biometric sensing chip (102) senses fingerprint of a user. A biometric recognition module (110) receives user recognition data representative of sensed fingerprint of the user, matches the user recognition data with historical user recognition data, identifies authentication of the user using a neural network accelerator. An access control module (120) enables access to the user for using the military weapon. A data monitoring and securing module (130) tracks user handling data representative of usage of the military weapon by the user in real-time, encrypts the user handling data for security purpose using a physical unclonable function based key generation technique. An actuation module (140) determines pressure of a finger of the user when the access for using the military weapon is obtained, sends activation signal for triggering of the military weapon by based on the pressure determined.

108 BC001-7AB1EE3ABE64 [80] System including firearm locking device and mount therefor
Locking systems including locking devices and mounts for firearms. In an example, the locking device includes a biometric sensor housing and a lock housing. The mount includes a base, a mount body sized to receive at least a portion of the locking device, and a tab having a tab hole extending therethrough. A fastening member is sized for retaining the locking device in the mount and can move between an unlocked and a locked configuration. In a locked configuration, the tab abuts an opening area on at least one of a surface of biometric sensor housing and lock housing. The locking device may also include a modular cover housing movable in a direction between a first position providing fastening member access to the tab hole, lock housing hole, and biometric sensor housing hole, and a second position where the cover housing blocks access to the fastening member.

109 BC001-47E0F9721A5C [80] Techniques for dynamically managing a gun component
The present disclosure provides systems and techniques for dynamically operating a peripheral component of a gun, such as a flashlight, an electronic sight, or a haptic motor. The gun may perform an authentication procedure to identify a user operating the gun, retrieve a configuration file from memory housed in the gun in response to the authentication procedure, and perform a function at the peripheral component based on the configuration file indicating that the function is to be performed for the user. The gun may collect authentication data, such as biometric data or token data, and the gun may identify the user operating the gun based on the authentication data. The user operating the gun may be identified in response to matching the collected authentication data to authentication data stored in the memory, and the gun may determine the function based on the configuration file indicating the function for the user.

110 BC001-417E0B0E241C [80] The little lock of Split type fingerprint
The Electromagnetic Control mechanism of the little lock of Split type fingerprint provided by the invention comprises electromagnet, electromagnetic core compressing tablet, electromagnetic core; Electromagnet, electromagnetic core compressing tablet, electromagnetic core three are sequentially connected.The present invention is integrated in the sensor of Fingerprint Lock on handheld terminal lockaid gun and is properly managed by user, can not be subject to the infringement of extreme climate and adverse circumstances, even if handheld terminal lockaid gun damages and loses and also can join again, can not have influence on the safety of lockset.The inner Electromagnetic Control mechanism arranging of lock body end of the present invention is than traditional Electric Machine Control unlocking mechanism, greatly reduced the volume of Fingerprint Lock lock body end, unique split-type design, make management in enormous quantities a plurality of during by locking device, lockset cost significantly reduces, service efficiency improves, maintenance cost reduces, and by the safety factor of locking device, is improved.

111 BC001-BD407DA6A5FB [80] Three-level networking bullet dynamic management system
The invention discloses a three-level networking bullet dynamic management system which comprises a fingerprint recognition device, an electronic tag and a timing module. The fingerprint recognition device and a human face scanning device are electrically connected with a digitalized bullet cabinet and a data storage device, the timing module is electrically connected with an electronic gun lock and a management monitoring center, the management monitoring center is connected with the digitalized bullet cabinet and a city-level monitoring center through broadband, and the city-level monitoring center is connected with a province-level monitoring center through broadband. The bullet cabinet is opened in a verification mode through the fingerprint recognition device and the human face scanning device and cannot be opened unless correct verification is achieved, the electronic gun lock cannot be opened unless a unique RFID code on the electronic tag on a gun is scanned and input, the digitalized bullet cabinet transmits all information of gun taking to the management monitoring center through the broadband, three-level supervision is achieved due to three-level networking of the province-level monitoring center, the city-level monitoring center and the management monitoring center, and safety and normalization are greatly improved.

112 BC001-BEC87A330DB0 [80] Voice system about scanning rifle
The utility model discloses a voice system about scanning rifle, including the scanning rifle, the scanning rifle includes interconnect's handle area and scanning end, handle outband wall sets up thefingerprint identification ware, the fingerprint identification ware includes finger groove, fingerprint message routing to the treater that is located the scanning end is gathered to the fingerprintidentification ware, the treater matchd fingerprint information after receiving fingerprint information, and start voice controller when fingerprint information is correct and open, voice controller predetermines operating personnel speech information, reads digital information and sends to the treater, and the demonstration screen display that the digital information control scanning end was received to the treater shows and two -dimensional code information still include third party's mobile device, third party's mobile device leads to scanning, and scanning information is received to the controller, and send to play to voice controller's speaker and collect digital information, the speaker sets up at the handle in -band, and installation department sets up loud -speaker port.

113 BC001-E98CFFB86998 [80] Weapon management device with bio-feature identification function
One kind has weapon of management installment the biological features identification function, its suitable in a firearms installment. And, this equipment at least includes one micro processing unit, a biological features induction mold train, a biological features identification mold train, a data storage mold train, a firearms protector control mold train, one power supply unit as well as one data transmission unit. Has the biological features (e.g. fingerprint phantom) of electronic information installment information bank to link with the preinstall the above weapon management installment, by the installment of this creation the biological features data transmission as well as the hypothesis with this electronic information installments, may the biological features data storage in this weapon management installment, penetrate again of biological features material detection identification function this creation, then definition this firearms use for user of the particular range, to achieve the goal of weapon use control.

114 BC001-AA52D0A0065B [80] Weapon safety device
A weapon safety assembly includes a processor coupled to a weapon. The processor is coupled to a safety of the weapon such that the processor selectively enables and disables the safety. An electronic memory is coupled to the weapon and the processor. The electronic memory stores an authorized fingerprint record. A scanner is coupled to a trigger of the weapon such that the scanner may identify a fingerprint of a user. The scanner is electrically coupled to the processor. The processor enables the safety if the fingerprint of the user does not match the authorized fingerprint record such that the weapon is prevented from being fired. A temperature sensor is coupled to the weapon such that the temperature sensor may detect a temperature of the user.

115 BC001-22C7B3E18472 [80] Weapon trigger interlock and monitoring system
A firearm activation and monitoring system which tracks, monitors, and automatically prevents a firearm from firing when a user is not in a suitable state of mind or is not an authorized user, as well as a method for activating and monitoring a firearm. The firearm activation and monitoring system generally comprises a firearm having a trigger and grip area, a plurality of biometric sensors located on the grip area which measure biometric data of a user, a trigger interlock, and a main microcontroller. The trigger interlock prevents the trigger from firing the firearm when the trigger interlock is in its normal or default position. To unlock the trigger, the user holds the grip area to activate the biometric sensors, and if the user is in an acceptable mental state, the main microcontroller will send an electrical signal to the trigger interlock, which unlocks the trigger and allows the user to pull the trigger of the firearm.

116 BC001-6624A50B3BD2 [80] trigger Lock System with Digital Fireweapons Sensor
TRIGGER LOCK SYSTEM WITH DIGITAL FIRE ENGINE SENSOR. The electronic firearm lock system reads the fingerprint of the finger, confronts this information with your database, and authorizes people to fire with the gun. The latching system is constituted by a digital sensor (2), which will read the fingerprint. The information will be analyzed by a microcontroller (3) who will decide whether or not the person is allowed to fire. The decision will be sent to a microtrigger (4) which, if the user is authorized, will release the trigger (6). If the user squeezes it, the user will be displaced necessary to displace the trigger rod, with the dog disarming and triggering the projectile. If the user is not allowed to use, the trigger (6) will not be released.

117 BC001-CCAB1407DBBD [75] 95-1 automatic rifle with fingerprint lock function
The utility model discloses a 95-1 automatic rifle with a fingerprint lock function. The 95-1 automatic rifle comprises a 95-1 automatic rifle body. The fingerprint identification module is arranged on the 95-1 automatic rifle body; the lock head mechanism is arranged in the 95-1 automatic rifle body; the control system is arranged in the 95-1 automatic rifle body; the control system is connected with the fingerprint identification module and the lock head mechanism, through the mode, a new design thought can be provided for the gun safety aspect, gun safety accidents are greatly reduced, and the gun safety management level of troops is improved.

118 BC001-B60360F39D4C [75] A firearm management system
The present invention is to manage firearms smartly by authenticating an access to a firearm management cabinet using biometric information of individual soldiers, managing import or export of the firearms using an identification module, storing import or export information of the firearms in a server, and managing the information using a mobile device. To this end, according to an embodiment of the present invention, a firearm management cabinet is disclosed. The firearm management cabinet may include a biometric module for authenticating biometric information of individual solders, and an identification module for managing import and export of firearms.

119 BC001-A45DA168B700 [75] A nightstand with a security safety drawer
A nightstand with a security safety drawer, that provides for the safe storage of a handgun or firearm while providing convenient and quick access to the handgun or firearm. The nightstand has a structure with an exterior side, a plurality of drawers, a top security drawer for the nightstand to safely and conveniently store the handgun or firearm and a biometric finger scanner to verify and allow the user access to the security top drawer. The nightstand also has a locking device for locking the security top drawer and preventing access to an unauthorized user and a means for providing a primary electrical power source with a battery back-up, to provide a secondary electrical power source to the biometric finger scanner. There is also a portable version of the security safety drawer that can be used in other venues with other nightstands.

120 BC001-50005036555C [75] A specially dedicated protected division system for storing weapons or valuables in cars
This invention relates to the design of a compartment for storing or protecting weapons or other valuables protected by a password, fingerprint or other lock system, in addition to automobile interior design.

121 BC001-83ACC1DF8F82 [75] Anti-forcible-entry fingerprint identification steel wire lock
The invention discloses an anti-forcible-entry fingerprint identification steel wire lock, and particularly relates to the field of locks. The anti-forcible-entry fingerprint identification steel wire lock comprises a lock body and a steel wire lock rope, and the outer side of the lock body is fixedly sleeved with a sheath. The lock body comprises a face shell, a bottom shell, a top lock plate and a bottom lock plate, and the top lock plate and the bottom lock plate are located at the two ends of the face shell and the two ends of the bottom shell correspondingly. A fixed lock head and a locking column head are arranged at the two ends of the steel wire lock rope correspondingly, a pin piece is arranged in the lock body, the fixed lock head is fixedly installed in the lock body through the pin piece, and a fingerprint recognition module and a spring bolt driving mechanism are fixedly installed in the lock body. According to the scheme, a fingerprint recognition device is arranged in the lock, the fingerprint recognition module is used for carrying out biological feature recognition on human fingerprints for automatic unlocking, the inconvenience that a traditional gun barrel steel wire lock can only be unlocked by carrying a key is improved, a spring bolt is locked through a motor and a cross wheel, a spring structure is not used, and unlocking through technical modes such as knocking and shifting can be prevented.

122 BC001-2C241BBE9874 [75] Antiaircraft gun locking device for meteorology
The utility model belongs to the technical field of safety locks, and particularly relates to a meteorological antiaircraft gun locking device which comprises a box body and a bolt, a protective cover is connected to the top of the box body, a fingerprint identifier is fixedly connected to the inner wall of the bottom of the protective cover, and a fingerprint identification locking assembly is arranged between the bolt and the fingerprint identifier. A plug pin moving assembly is arranged between the box body and the plug pin and comprises a rotating shaft rotationally connected to the front side of the box body and a lug plate fixedly connected to the bottom of the plug pin. The antiaircraft gun locking device is reasonable in structural design and simpler in structure, later maintenance work is facilitated, the antiaircraft gun can be locked and unlocked conveniently, meanwhile, during locking, the bolt is fixed by inserting the lock rod into the lock groove in the left side, the bolt can lock the antiaircraft gun more firmly, and the safety of the antiaircraft gun is improved. And the situation that the locking firmness of the antiaircraft gun is affected due to the fact that the bolt shakes is prevented.

123 BC001-652AEC14EDC7 [75] Apparatus and method for firing using biometric recognition
An apparatus (300) for firing. The apparatus includes a barrel (302). The apparatus includes a controller (304) connected to the barrel to control whether the barrel can fire. The apparatus includes a mechanism for determining the current biometric signature of the ejector that wants to fire the barrel. The determination mechanism is in communication with said controller. The controller only permits the firing of the barrel if the firing's current biometric signature is recognized by the controller. A method for firing a barrel. The method includes the step of the ejector gripping the handle (308) of the barrel. There is then a step of recognizing the ejector's current biometric signature. There is then a step of releasing the barrel to allow the barrel to fire as long as the firing's biometric signature is recognized.

124 BC001-368F35E993DE [75] Automatic personal weapon with electronic management and caseless ammunition
The invention relates to a personal weapon for automatic firing of caseless ammunition, provided with an electronic firing controller with biometric identification of the person firing. The weapon has a sealing device for the chamber based on using segments or petals for variation of bore size mechanically or with gas pressure. A delay in opening the breech/barrel unit my be introduced using spigots driven by propellant gases. A device for sequencing compartments in tandem in the magazine uses the reduction volume of ammunition to double the power of the firearm. A fixed lock permits the integral locking of breech, trigger, magazine and disassembly bolt. A telescopic extension device for the barrel increases the power of the ammunition and a gas bleed in the chamber permits the stabilization of the firing.

125 BC001-9C053465D312 [75] Automobile staring system with fingerprint identification device
The utility model provides an automobile staring system with fingerprint identification device, it includes host computer, fingerprint sampler, remote controller, ignition switch, auxiliary electricalpower source, functional with electrical apparatus, automobile point firearm and oil pump, wherein, the ignition switch including shelves close, shelves and some fire screen are opened to first division of shelves, second, when the ignition switch was rotated to first division of shelves, functional with electrical apparatus and auxiliary electrical power source intercommunication and the work ofopening, when the ignition switch lay in the second and opens shelves, automobile point firearm and oil pump and auxiliary electrical power source intercommunication be at standby state, then fingerprint sampler is when importing corresponding fingerprint and instructing, and automobile point firearm carries out ignition operation to oil pump spun oil, when some fire screens are just got to withthe ignition switch to the automobile flameout time in a setting value, automobile point firearm and the oil pump work of opening to under guaranteeing not obtain car owner's fingerprint mandate, thecar is unable to be started, has solved the potential safety hazard that theft hidden danger and teenage family members drove privately.

126 BC001-6197DE78098F [75] Biological fingerprint identification unlocking gun trigger
The utility model discloses a trigger for unlocking a gun through biological fingerprint identification. The gun trigger comprises a gun trigger shell, a gun trigger shell cover and a machine shell. Acontrol panel is mounted at the top in the gun trigger shell through screws; a fingerprint identification module is mounted at the top of the control panel through a limiting groove; a fingerprint setting key is mounted on one side of the bottom end of the control panel through a screw; a machine shell is arranged at the bottom end of the control panel. A motor is installed in the machine shell through an installation base. An output shaft of the motor is provided with a rotating wheel through a fixing piece; an oval limiting plate is installed at the bottom of the machine shell through bolts, a slidable L-shaped rack spring bolt is arranged in the oval limiting plate, a gun trigger shell cover is installed at the bottom of the gun trigger shell through bolts, and a reset spring is connected to the top of the gun trigger shell cover through a limiting clamping groove. The biological fingerprint recognition unlocking gun trigger is simple in structure, convenient to produce, high in unlocking efficiency, high in practicability and suitable for wide application and popularization.

127 BC001-C75809888466 [75] Biometric Firearms Safety System
A biometric firearms safety system includes a firearm that has a grip and an action. A fingerprint unit is coupled to the firearm. The fingerprint unit is positioned on the grip to read fingerprints from a user. The fingerprint unit stores fingerprints from an authorized user. A locking unit is coupled to the firearm. The locking unit engages the action such that the locking unit inhibits the action from is manipulated. Thus, the locking unit inhibits the firearm from is loaded and fired. The locking unit is electrically coupled to the fingerprint unit. The locking unit disengages from the action when the user's fingerprints match the authorized user's fingerprints. Thus, the locking unit facilitates the user to load and fire the firearm.

128 BC001-0FA350B70D37 [75] Biometric authentication lock machine
Biometric Authentication Lock Mechanism, called BALM, is a novel fingerprint enabled lock mechanism for bike locks, lockboxes, handguns, luggage, briefcases, desk drawers, cash registers, gym lockers and padlocks. Until BALM, mechanical locks required a key, a combination number, or an access code. Furthermore, most of these locks utilized a tumbler. BALM enables customers to open their lock with only their finger. With BALM, there are no more keys to lose, or combination numbers to forget.

129 BC001-769FDE70434C [75] Biometric authorization and registration systems and methods
Biometric authorization and registration systems and methods are disclosed. In one embodiment, the system preferably comprises a firearm (100) that includes a biometric authorization system (105), a plurality of training computers (125), and a server. In the preferred embodiment, the server and the training computer (125) interact to train the biometric authorization system (105) in the firearm (100) to accurately and reliably discriminate between the authorized user and unauthorized users. The server utilizes a training algorithm that takes into account biometric information of not only the authorized user of firearm (100), but also those of a large number of unauthorized users. Such biometric information is utilized to compute one or more discriminants and thresholds for such discriminant(s), which are then transmitted to the biometric authorization system (105) in the firearm (100). If the user is allowed to operate the firearm (100) a predetermined percentage of the time, the discriminant thresholds are fixed. If not, the server adjusts the thresholds, and the process is repeated. In another aspect of the present invention, the system may be utilized to uniquely register the firearm (100) with the authorized user. Similar training algorithms are also disclosed for training biometric authorization systems (105) in devices other than firearms.

130 BC001-DE789A6F5693 [75] Biometric quick release gun lock
A quick biometric gun lock has a hinge located between two sides such that the two sides open and close about the hinge and a cavity between the two sides for reception of the finger protector and trigger mechanism of a gun such that the quick biometric gun lock encloses the trigger and finger protection area. A control shaft is attached to one of the sides having teeth for closure of the gunlock and extends into a hollow area of the other side. A control device in the other side is arranged to engage the teeth of the control shaft. This control device is either an electric motor or solenoid controlled by a microcontroller. For an electric motor the integral shaft moves a toothed servo shaft that is in contact with corresponding grooves of the electric motor's integral shaft; the solenoid has an integral shaft to control the gunlock.

131 BC001-85D5CCF2FB70 [75] Biometric security system for retrofitting
Biometric vault security for retrofitting the security of vault with mechanical key lock, mechanical or electronic combination lock or combinations thereof, for preventing access of unauthorized persons to the weapons or objects stored in the vault, by attaching a locking device in front of the actual lock mechanism of the safe, characterized in that a dimensionally stable base plate is connected to the safe in such a way that the original actual lock mechanism of the safe is covered by the locking mechanism.

132 BC001-9B0F2EBF2525 [75] Biometric thumbprint lock apparatus and method
A biometrically keyed thumbprint lock apparatus is disclosed. In one embodiment the lock apparatus serves as a safety device on a gun or rifle, the lock apparatus disabling the gun and preventing its use. Another embodiment providing a thumbprint lock having a ‘J’ shaped lock bar, replacing conventional key and combination locks.

133 BC001-29ADD3772F0D [75] Bluetooth fingerprint lock wire hanging frame
The utility model belongs to the technical field of charging gun wire hanging frames, and relates to a Bluetooth fingerprint lock wire hanging frame, which comprises a wire hanging frame and a circuit mainboard, a motor fixing clamping position is arranged on the wire hanging frame, a speed reducing motor is arranged on the motor fixing clamping position, a fixed swing arm is arranged on an output shaft of the speed reducing motor, and a Bluetooth fingerprint lock is arranged on the circuit mainboard. A concave lock cylinder is connected to the fixed swing arm, and a limiting groove is formed in the wire hanging frame. The Bluetooth fingerprint lock wire hanging frame has the beneficial effects that through the arrangement of the fixing cylinder, the wire hanging frame, the circuit mainboard, the wire winding frame and the like, a charging gun can be fixed on the wire hanging frame and does not need to be placed in a charging box, so that the heat dissipation effect of the charging gun is better; through the arrangement of the main control module, the fingerprint acquisition module, the Bluetooth module, the radio frequency identification module and the like, opening and closing of the concave lock cylinder can be controlled through fingerprints and Bluetooth, the situation that the concave lock cylinder is stolen or used when not used is avoided, and the phenomenon that children get the concave lock cylinder to cause electric shock can also be avoided.

134 BC001-ED232444AA99 [75] Cartridge management system
The utility model provides a cartridge management system, this system adopt iris recognition technology and fingerprint recognition technology to set up twice mandate procedure for the cartridge management, and the global architecture includes: always control host computer, storeroom door taboo device and rifle cabinet management device. Wherein always control the host computer and set up management software, go out functions such as stock management including user management, cartridge, whether storeroom door prohibits the device and includes explosion vent and entrance guard's iris discernment appearance, always control the host computer and discern as a result the mandate explosion vent according to entrance guard's iris discernment appearance and open, rifle cabinet management device includes iris discernment appearance in rifle cabinet and the storehouse, always control the host computer in according to the storehouse iris discernment appearance to cartridge regulator's discernment result, the fingerprint identification instrument of the corresponding rifle cabinet of activation for the cartridge owner can further use the fingerprint to open rifle cabinet door. The utility model discloses can realize firearms and ammunition's high -efficient management, the security is high.

135 BC001-F1F8803390DA [75] Clawgraph security system
Army weapon system, Banking lockers, security sector, Atomic Research and technology used the this clawgraph system and very helpful for this sector this system. This Thesis are under Development. In this experiment, a handprint is created from the handprints of many people and a graph is created by setting coordinates on that handprint. Lockers will be opened with the help of hand prints and coordinate graph. This system is simple and safe. Research has crores of combinations so no one can hack it. Clawgraph is the process of scanning a specific part of a person's hand bit by bit and combining all those specific parts together to form a perfect hand claw. This system can be created using more than one handprint. The word Clawgraph does not appear in any language yet. In this a new word clawgraph has been created by combining two words claw meaning hand claw and graph meaning graph. Currently, this word does not even exist in the English language. We are using the term clawgraph to draw a graph of the claw of a hand. We have developed a new system called clawgraph to combine various fingerprints and create a secure system out of it.

136 BC001-93EB65844E03 [75] Code scanning gun with double fingerprint devices
The code scanning gun comprises a photoelectric scanning device, a grip, a key, a first fingerprint device and a second fingerprint device, the photoelectric scanning device is fixedly connected with the grip, a key groove is formed in the joint of the photoelectric scanning device and the grip, the key is installed in the key groove, and the first fingerprint device and the second fingerprint device are arranged in the key groove. The first fingerprint device is fixedly installed on the key, the second fingerprint device is fixedly installed on the grip and located on the side away from the key, and the first fingerprint device and the second fingerprint device act together to effectively prevent passwords from being leaked. The photoelectric scanning device is controlled to be started through the first fingerprint device, a two-dimensional code can be scanned, the second fingerprint device can log in an account number for unlocking the computer terminal, code scanning work can be carried out only when the two fingerprint devices are unlocked at the same time, and safety and reliability are achieved.

137 BC001-17D65C7CBCFC [75] Delta combines airport face biometrics, in flight personalization in integrated platform
With the development of the era of artificial intelligence, more and more biometric technologies are being used in the field of product security. Airport security screening is to prevent the carriage of flammable, explosive, corrosive, and dangerous goods such as firearms and ammunition to ensure the personal and property safety of aircraft and passengers. Generally, it has to go through three procedures: whether the witnesses are united, whether the body is safe, and whether the luggage is safe. With the development of science and technology, airport security inspection technology has been continuously improved, and new technologies have been used, improving security inspection efficiency and ensuring accuracy. Proving personal information is necessary, using relevant documents to prove that it is the same person. In the past, airports used manual checks to confirm each passenger's identity. Each passenger was identified by showing his/her photograph on the document. Passenger identification is sometimes difficult due to the massive difference between recognizing facial features, so security lines require computerized IT information management systems and biometrics.

138 BC001-D2F0BFD72EB9 [75] Detachable assault rifle based on fingerprint fingerprint recognition and recognition method thereof
The invention discloses a detachable assault rifle based on fingerprint recognition and a recognition method thereof. The detachable assault rifle based on fingerprint recognition comprises a distance measurement observation sight bead, wherein a connecting magazine is movably installed at the bottom end of the distance measurement observation sight bead; a combined installation frame is fixedly installed on the left side end face of the connecting magazine; a rifle outlet guide pipe is fixedly installed on the right side of the connecting magazine; a gunstock is fixedly mounted at the bottom end of the connecting magazine; and a bullet support is movably installed in the gunstock. According to the detachable assault rifle based on fingerprint recognition and the recognition method thereof, a controller can control the steps of unlocking and locking in an automatic lock, so that the fixing and dismounting convenience of the assault rifle is improved; meanwhile, a motor control module is controlled by the controller, and an electric motor can be controlled so as to be helped to rotate, so that the effects of fixing and unlocking a rotating rod are achieved; and a fingerprint verifier can help a user to carry out fingerprint verification, and after verification of the fingerprint verifier is completed, the result is verified through a recognition center.

139 BC001-141654DB14EE [75] Device for storing weapons in a vehicle
FIELD: weaponry.SUBSTANCE: device for storing weapons in a vehicle contains a base with cells in the form of nests of a rectangular shape for accommodating weapon butts, holes for mounting the device in a vehicle, side vertical racks with swivel longitudinal bars, which are fixed with swivel joints. Swivel longitudinal bars contain locking mechanisms and are equipped with fingerprint scanners. The locking mechanism and the scanner are powered by electricity from the vehicle's on-board network or an internal autonomous source in the form of a lithium-ion battery.EFFECT: increasing the safety of weapons when transported in a vehicle, increasing mobility.1 cl, 3 dwg

140 BC001-A4A3B9816726 [75] Efficient tempered film anti-fingerprint coating device
The utility model discloses an efficient tempered film anti-fingerprint coating device which comprises a conveying table and a tempered film, the tempered film is placed at the top end of the conveying table, the two sides of the conveying table are connected with a support, one side of the support is connected with an adjusting mechanism which can enable anti-fingerprint oil to be evenly sprayed and can adjust the placing direction of the tempered film, and the adjusting mechanism is connected with the conveying table. According to the utility model, the adjusting mechanism is additionally arranged, so that the problem of non-uniform spraying of individual tempered films during back-and-forth spraying of the spray gun is solved, the effect of uniform spraying of individual tempered films is realized, meanwhile, the tempered films can be transmitted in the same direction through the adjusting mechanism, and the problems that the tempered films are placed in different directions due to scattered placement and the tempered films cannot be uniformly sprayed are solved. In the spraying process, part of the anti-fingerprint oil is sprayed to the table top of the conveying table, the tempered film can move in one direction, no large amount of anti-fingerprint oil is left on the table top of the conveying table during spraying, the table top can be cleaned conveniently, and the production efficiency is improved.

141 BC001-70571A014293 [75] Electronic finger gun cover
The present invention relates to an electronic finger weapon sleeve, the sleeve being constructed of a steel or "carbon fiber" type material, having a 360 o reading fingerprint reader, which will only give you access to the previously configured fingerprint carrier, it will have a 800 to 1200 mA lithium ion internal battery, a lithium battery charger protection board with micro USB, a 3.7 V to 5 V converter micro voltage boost power module, that will provide a solenoid composed lock of sufficient force to actuate an internal L-shaped latch that will release the guard arch of a gun or stir, allowing it to be quickly and safely released upon detection of the actual user's footprint, this object may be manufactured at the industrial level for different types of weathers and models, allowing security force personnel or legitimate weathers to carry or possess the safe weapon, in the sense of handling, restricting it for children, family members or thisters until they are detected or trapped to the latter. The problem posed has caused it to think that its solution has to do with the safety of a firearm contained in a sheath, intended for this purpose; therefore, the gun / swirl wearer will be sure to leave his or her weapon in sectors of his or her home intended for this purpose and in turn contained in the electronic finger sheath. The innovation of this product lies in that through its internal cavities that contain electronic mechanisms, it will contain and retain the gun by means of a selenoid activated lock, giving access to its owner only by means of the fingerprint.

142 BC001-A4EFE0622F4F [75] Equipment and method for quickly querying and identifying health certificates
The invention relates to equipment and a method for quickly querying and identifying health certificates, which are used for solving the problem that inspectors in the current market are difficult to quickly inspect and identify the authenticity of the health certificates. A health certificate rapid query and recognition device comprises a protection shell, a touch screen and a power supply module, and further comprises an operation system module, a face recognition module, an identity card reading module, a networking module, a printing module and a voice vibration module. The touch screen is electrically connected with the operating system module; the protective shell is in a pistol shape and is divided into a pistol body and a grip. A main switch is arranged on the gun body; the face recognition module is located on the front end face of the gun body, the identity card reading module and the networking module are located on the gun body, and the display module and the operation system module are located on the side wall of the gun body. The printing module is located on the rear end face of the gun body. The invention further provides a health certificate quick query method.

143 BC001-8D78520460DC [75] Finger print identification ring lock
One kind by fingerprint identification unblanking ferrule, its structure includes: The body, a male buckle and a box thread, it buckles mutually after forms a ferrule; One fingerprint identification unit, is establishment on this belt body, and electrical connection in one control unit and a battery, with control a magnetic contactor to do, then may control this ferrule to become the unblanking or the block system; This creation is developing has become the mature fingerprint identification technology, and block system demand of union with ferrule the unblanking, the user does not need the key or remembers the password, only need by the fingerprint identification comparison, then easily cause the ferrule make and break; Because the fingerprint identification has the conveniences, unique and security, it with the ferrule union, to promote the ferrule to apply in the daily life the convenience. Goes a step further, may unify a caution signaling electric circuit and a receiving device, then can be prevents the child or the pet is lost the sharp weapon.

144 BC001-26583E892E01 [75] Fingerprint and key releasable lock
Lock, in particular a money cabinet or weapon cabinet lock, having a bolt (2) which is held in a pre-closed bolt position by a mechanical tumbler (5, 6, 7) and an electromechanical tumbler (4) and which can only be locked back when the mechanical tumbler (5, 6, 7) And the electromechanical tumbler (4) are released by electrical loading, characterized by a fingerprint reader (41) operatively connected to the lock in such a way that the electrical loading takes place only when a fingerprint having an opening authorization is read by the fingerprint reader (41).

145 BC001-77C7BB6F48C9 [75] Fingerprint gun lock apparatus
A fingerprint gun lock apparatus for quickly and safely locking and unlocking a trigger of a gun includes a frontside body having a frontside inner face with an extended portion and a recessed portion. A screw gear is coupled to a motor within a frontside inner cavity. A pair of locking pins each has a threaded end coupled to the screw gear, extends through a pair of pin apertures, and has a hooked distal end. The pair of locking pins secures a backside body to the frontside body around the trigger of the gun. A fingerprint scanner activates the motor to turn the screw gear and separate the pair of locking pins when an authorized fingerprint is touched to the scan side to allow the frontside body and the backside body to separate.

146 BC001-61BC1DDBD7CE [75] Fingerprint gun trigger lock
The utility model relates to the technical field of gun instruments, in particular to a fingerprint gun trigger lock which comprises an upper shell body, an upper shell cover, a lower shell body, a lower shell cover and a rack lock column, the upper shell cover is arranged on the bottom side of the upper shell body, the lower shell cover is installed at the top end of the lower shell body, and the upper side of the rack lock column is arranged on the inner side of the upper shell body. The lower side of the rack lock column is arranged on the inner side of the lower shell, a rack lock tongue is arranged on the left side of the rack lock column, a control motor is installed on the inner side of the lower shell, a storage battery is arranged on the left side of the control motor, and an electric control board is installed on the inner side of the bottom end of the lower shell. A fingerprint module and a display screen which are arranged in a left-right mode are installed on the bottom end face of the electric control board, and the fingerprint module and the display screen are both embedded in the inner side of the lower shell. When the gun is not used, the gun can be locked, and juveniles and other people are prevented from using the gun; and the time for unlocking the firearms can be greatly shortened when the firearms need to be used, and the use safety of the firearms is improved.

147 BC001-BF8369B0EC15 [75] Fingerprint identification gun case with self -locking function
The utility model relates to a fingerprint identification gun case with self -locking function, it includes gun case, the rifle body, automatically controlled buckle, central controller, fingerprint identification system, circuit board, and central controller, fingerprint identification system configuration are on the circuit board, and automatically controlled buckle and central controller electricity are connected, and the rifle body inserts the gun case, still includes a rifle body and gun case locking device. This gun case through this mode, prevents that gun from being used by other people only through being opened under fingerprint identification's the condition, in addition, the setting up of locking device makes just in case gun are stolen or by also unable use the under the condition of robbing, provide the security screening one, for the masses on every side win some safe evacuation time, also wins the time for other police take further measure.

148 BC001-326E41504900 [75] Fingerprint identification's alcohol group combustor controlling means
The utility model provides a fingerprint identification's alcohol group combustor controlling means, by power supply circuit (1), microcontroller circuit (2), key input circuit (3), flame detection circuitry (4), fan drive circuit (5), fan (6), fuel pump, some firearm drive circuit (7), fuel pump (8), some firearm (9), fingerprint identification circuit (10), and prompt voice circuit (11), speaker (12) are formed, the operation is before the controlling means, must whether have an operation authority through the fingerprint identification circuit identity, if fingerprint identification passes through, the device can send the voice prompt of " fingerprint identification is correct, woulds you please the safe operation ", allows the operator to operate controlling means, if the voice prompt of " the retry is asked to your fingerprint identification mistake " can be sent to fingerprint identification mistake, device.

149 BC001-7A2C56F84041 [75] Fingerprint recognition safety systems
A universal fingerprint recognition system for firearms that greatly reduces misuse and accidental discharge of a firearm. The fingerprint recognition assembly is completely embedded within the firearm to prevent tampering. A chip embedded in the trigger scans the firearm owner's fingerprint, and when recognized releases a safety pin, allowing the trigger to be pulled. A charging port embedded in the firearm's grip allows a USB-type connector to be attached and charge the battery chip in the CPU.

150 BC001-415C96CE0F28 [75] Fingerprint safety stun gun
The utility model provides a fingerprint safety stun gun which comprises a gun body, a gun handle, a trigger module, an electric shock bomb and a discharging mechanism, two firing electrodes capable of being fired are arranged in the electric shock bomb, the discharging mechanism is used for electrifying the fired firing electrodes at high voltage, and the fingerprint safety stun gun further comprises a fingerprint module. And the fingerprint module and the trigger module are linked to control the percussion of the electric shock bomb. Two laser emitters are arranged below the gun body, and the laser emitting directions of the laser emitters are the same as the emitting directions of the corresponding emitting electrodes. The gun not only can solve the problem of unauthorized use of the stun gun, but also can solve the problem that the striking position of the electrode cannot be accurately aimed.

151 BC001-7B35C6C39C7E [75] Fingerprint safety stun gun
The utility model relates to the field of security and protection devices, and discloses a fingerprint safety stun gun which comprises a gun body, a gun handle is fixedly connected to one side of the lower surface of the gun body, a battery is arranged in the gun handle, a high-voltage module is arranged in the gun body, one end of the gun body is fixedly connected with a cartridge holder, and the other end of the gun body is fixedly connected with a fingerprint module. A plurality of electrode blocks are fixedly connected to the inner wall of the cartridge holder, electric shock bullets are slidably connected to the interiors of the electrode blocks, the electric shock bullets are electrically connected to one end of a high-voltage module, the high-voltage module is electrically connected to one end of a battery, and a fingerprint block is fixedly connected to the upper portion of one side of the outer surface of the gun handle. According to the utility model, the power switch can be unlocked by putting a finger on the fingerprint block, then the battery can be connected by pressing the power switch, and then the electric shock bomb can be launched by pulling the trigger, so that the traditional gun safety switch is replaced, the unauthorized use of the electric shock gun can be prevented, and the use safety of the gun is greatly improved.

152 BC001-560BF8D311CF [75] Fingerprint system on semi-automatic or fully automatic weapons.
The invention relates to a semi-automatic or full automatic weapon (1) (pistol, rifle, etc.) that has a fingerprint system that can only be used by the owner of a microprocessor embedded in a gun when the microprocessor opens the security lock, if the fingerprint is not read, and cannot be used by other people because the microprocessor does not disable the security lock. it is characterized by having a fingerprint system (2) and a microprocessor (3) that ensures that a single person can use it and that a secure lock (3) can be turned on and off.

153 BC001-2A0D3C9F497D [75] Firearm device with authenticating function
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To provide a firearm device with authenticating function for preventing a child or a third party from using the same by prohibiting a firearm device user, not authenticated as a person who has a regular using right, from using the same.SOLUTION: The firearm device with authenticating function for allowing only a specified person to use the firearm device comprises a fingerprint information reading means for reading fingerprint information for a user, a storage means for previously storing fingerprint information for persons who are authenticated to use the firearm device, an ignition means for igniting the firearm device, a locking means for locking the ignition means into a non-igniting condition, a fingerprint information collating means for collating the fingerprint information read by the fingerprint information reading means with the fingerprint information stored in the storage means, and an unlocking means for unlocking the locking means when collation is accepted by the fingerprint information collating means.COPYRIGHT: (C)2005,JPO&NCIPI

154 BC001-ED53CCF45E9D [75] Firearm handgrip with intergrated safety lock system
A firearm handgrip with integrated safety lock system includes a handgrip having a plurality of connectors, a generally hollow interior space and an aperture, An elongated retractable plate is positioned within the aperture and is connected to a plate alignment unit located within the interior space of the handgrip. The plate transitions between an extended position and a retracted position. In the extended position, the plate physically engages the firearm's integrated safety mechanism to maintain the same in the “safe” position. The system further includes a biometric authentication system, an electromechanical latch and an internal controller.

155 BC001-466F80940DAF [75] Firearm housing with heavy-duty locking mechanism
A safety housing for a firearm includes a biometric or other access authentication device, an enclosure, a frame assembly, a slide assembly, and a door. The frame and the slide assemblies nest within the enclosure, the frame assembly affixes to the enclosure, and the slide assembly moves relative to the frame assembly. The door moves between an open position in which the firearm is removable through an access opening in the housing, and a closed position covering the access opening. The housing has cooperating internal components that operate to lock the door closed when the slide assembly is locked in place, to unlock the door when the slide assembly is released, to move the door open when the slide assembly is moved upwards, and to move the door closed when the slide assembly is moved downwards. Also, the frame assembly has adjustably positionable support elements for different firearms.

156 BC001-E65B52308456 [75] Firearm locking device
Presently disclosed is a locking device for a firearm that includes a longitudinally extending frame and a configurable butt support, a configurable action housing, and a barrel lock. The configurable butt support defines an opening for receiving a butt of the firearm, with one or more of the width, length or base of the opening being configurable. The configurable action housing defines a channel between interchangeable opposing profiles, which are associated with the configuration of one or more firearms and inhibit access to at least a trigger of the firearm. The barrel lock is configured to secure the barrel of the firearm when in a locked position, and to release the barrel of the firearm when in an unlocked position. The locking device may also include a biometrically activated lock, such as a fingerprint reader, and a communication interface to provide information about attempts to access the firearm.

157 BC001-ACD688880E04 [75] Firearm safety systems
A firearm safety system is described herein which may be configured to be personalized for use by one or more individuals who are authorized to use that firearm. The firearm may have the one or more authorized individuals pre-authorized such that one or more of their biometric identifying information becomes associated with the weapon. During use, the firearm may readily identify whether the user is an authorized individual in which case the firearm may be used normally. In the event that the biometric feature of the detected user is an unauthorized individual, the firearm may become rendered unusable by automatically disengaging or inhibiting the firing mechanism.

158 BC001-BD534FF7DA23 [75] Firearm warehouse for gun management
The utility model belongs to the technical field of gun management, and particularly relates to a gun management firearm library which comprises a firearm library body, a plurality of gun cabinets, electronic locks, fingerprint machines, fingerprint identification screens and a door-shaped frame, the gun cabinets are arranged on the firearm library body, the electronic locks are arranged on the gun cabinets, the fingerprint machines are further arranged on the electronic locks, and the fingerprint identification screens are arranged on the door-shaped frame. The firearm library comprises a firearm library body, a sliding plate is arranged on the inner side of the sliding plate, a fingerprint machine is arranged on the sliding plate, a fingerprint recognition screen is arranged on the fingerprint machine, a door-shaped frame is fixed to the bottom end of one side of the firearm library body and located on the outer side of the fingerprint recognition screen, and wall grooves are formed in the inner walls of the two sides of the door-shaped frame. Therefore, the screen face of the fingerprint identification screen on the fingerprint machine is wiped and cleaned through the wiping pad located on one side of the sliding block in the downward moving process, the sliding plate and the wiping pad can automatically move upwards to reset after cleaning, operation is easy, use is convenient and fast, it is guaranteed that the screen face of the fingerprint identification screen is clean, and identification and authentication of the fingerprint identification screen on fingerprints are facilitated.

159 BC001-C047EC90B27A [75] Firearm with fingerprint recognition and electronic-control percussion function
The invention discloses a firearm with fingerprint recognition and electronic-control percussion functions. The firearm has the advantages that a fingerprint recognition device is arranged on the front surface of a trigger of the firearm, bullets can be percussed under electronic control of the firearm, fingerprints of a firearm holder are read by the fingerprint recognition device on the front surface of the trigger when the firearm holder pulls the trigger, a control circuit can be connected with an electronic-control coil if the firearm holder is authorized to use the firearm, accordingly, the bullets can be impacted by a firing pin of an armature and can be discharged under the electronic control of the firearm, and problems of unauthorized use of existing firearms and accidental discharge of the existing firearms can be solved.

160 BC001-4FF4F716A14D [75] Firearms recognizing management system
The invention belongs to the field of the information recognition and search technique, which is a gun recognition management system. The system is arranged with an information card on the gun located on the information reading handle to perform the gun information management. The system face includes a gun registration module, a gun logoff module, a gun information search module, a personnel registration module, a personnel logoff module, a personnel information search module, a fingerprint lending-returning module, an ID lending-returning module, a lending-returning module information search module. The invention has the advantages of being in favor of gun informatization, capable of matching the personnel and the gun, improving the aspect of noneffective management when taking exigent start.

161 BC001-530B946E11D6 [75] Gas station safety non-inductive payment method and system based on face recognition
The invention discloses a gas station safety non-inductive payment method and system based on face recognition, electronic equipment and a computer storage medium. The method comprises the following steps: S1, outside a period of validity, obtaining first identity information obtained by carrying out face recognition on a user in front of an oiling machine by an oiling machine face recognition device; S2, in the period of validity, obtaining second identity information and third identity information obtained by performing face recognition on a user when the oiling machine face recognition equipment performs gun taking operation and gun returning operation; S3, if the first identity information is consistent with the second identity information and/or the third identity information, turning to S4; S4, acquiring the account information corresponding to the first identity information, and automatically deducting refueling charging from an account, wherein the period of validity refers to a time period after the user is identified for the first time and after refueling is finished. According to the scheme of the invention, on one hand, the convenience of non-inductive payment is ensured; on the other hand, the security of non-inductive payment is also ensured.

162 BC001-123D01174B04 [75] Gun handing -over authenticate device
The utility model discloses a gun handing -over authenticate device, it includes the casing, the casing is including back lid and touch operation display screen, be provided with in the casing with the core processing module that the touch operation display screen is connected, core processing module includes central processing unit, memory and is used for connecting peripheral's communication interface, core processing module connects the RFID scanner of qxcomm technology module and biological fingerprint identification module. The utility model discloses an electronic tags of real time scanning gun installation when the isabnormal condition is taken, is lost by mistake to emergence money case, accessible time produces and reports to the police, does benefit to timely warning and handles, avoids heavy losses and accident. Through the backstage cloud, can be according to the task of receiving of dispatch arrangement, personnel?information and corresponding gun information that the synchronous update gun were received. Nimble allotment personnel and gun improve the rate of utilization. The utility model discloses touch operation, whole voice prompt, the operation is swift simple, the easy to use.

163 BC001-483B932099F7 [75] Gun handing -over operation panel
The utility model relates to a gun handing -over operation panel, including the operation panel body and with the control module of this body coupling of operation panel, the operation panel body is including bottom plate that is equipped with the slide rail and the tray that can follow the slide rail operation on this bottom plate, the bottom plate both sides are equipped with two corresponding inside walls and two lateral walls respectively, the slide rail is located between two inside walls, control module includes scanner, fingerprint identification ware and central processing unit, central processing unit is right with the fingerprint signal contrast back of fingerprint identification ware through the scanning signal with the gun of scanner on to the operation panel body regulation and control are realized to the operation panel body. The utility model is not only simple in structure, and can realize scanning the authentication, the security performance is high.

164 BC001-09D68B1A0BCF [75] Gun locking mechanism capable of being quickly unlocked by inputting fingerprints
The utility model provides a gun locking mechanism capable of being quickly opened by inputting fingerprints, which comprises a plurality of placing racks, a plurality of mounting boxes, a fingerprint input key, a mute key, a fingerprint acquisition head, an emergency lock, an electromagnet, a charging port and a cabinet body, the fingerprint input key and the mute key are respectively mounted on one side of the interior of the placement frame, and the fingerprint acquisition head and the emergency lock are respectively mounted at one end of the mounting box; the electromagnet is arranged on one side in the containing frame. According to the gun locking mechanism capable of being rapidly opened by inputting the fingerprints, the fingerprints of authorized users can be input conveniently and rapidly, unlocking is carried out, authorized guns are taken out, gun taking and returning information can be connected with a background platform, a background computer can control the real-time states of the guns in real time, and the gun locking mechanism is convenient to use. The method is suitable for specific environments.

165 BC001-70E9C36BB296 [75] Gun management device
The utility model discloses a gun management device, be equipped with the treater in the gun handle, still be equipped with rechargeable battery in the gun handle, the portion of holding of gun handleis equipped with the fingerprint inductor, be equipped with the electromagnetic control lock in the trigger linkage of gun, the treater is connected with rechargeable battery, fingerprint inductor and electromagnetic control lock electricity respectively, still be equipped with communication module on the gun, the output of treater and communication module electricity are connected, are connectedwith police station gun management server foundation through communication module. The utility model discloses can gather gun user of service's fingerprint at every turn to judge whether be legal user of service, thereby realize carrying out the management of intelligent use to gun, still can realize carrying out remote management to losing gun, thereby can avoid gun to lose the back and used byillegal. Simultaneously, through orientation module, gun are lost in can be convenient give for change.

166 BC001-173CD304C1C5 [75] Gun trigger lock
The invention discloses a gun trigger lock which comprises a lock body and a locking cover capable of being turned over relative to the lock body. The lock body is provided with an identity recognition device, a control circuit board, a drive device, a locking mechanism and a power source module. The identity recognition device is used for acquiring user identity information and sending the user identity information to the control circuit board. The control circuit board controls the drive device to act according to the comparison result of the identity information. The drive device drives the locking mechanism to act. The power module supplies power to the identity recognition device, the control circuit board and the drive device. The lock cover is provided with a buckle plate bucked to the locking mechanism. The gun trigger lock drops out when opened and is convenient to operate. A miniature worm and gear motor is adopted to drive the locking mechanism and is small in size, low in output power and beneficial to lightweight and miniaturization of the gun trigger lock. The gun trigger lock is further provided with a mechanical emergency unlocking mechanism. The gun trigger lock can be unlocked through the mechanical emergency unlocking mechanism under the emergency condition. A fingerprint unlocking manner, a sound unlocking manner, an RFID unlocking manner, a Bluetooth unlocking manner and the like can be selected and used for the identity recognition device.

167 BC001-B01A4A11D21B [75] Gun trigger lock
The invention relates to the technical field of gun trigger locks, in particular to a gun trigger lock, in a locking state, a user uses fingerprints set in a fingerprint module on a circuit board by himself to unlock the lock, in the locking state, a supporting rod of a cam faces downwards and is not in contact with a spring bolt piece, and in the locking state, the supporting rod of the cam is not in contact with the spring bolt piece. The lock tongue head of the lock tongue piece extends into the lock hook side clamping groove of the lock hook piece, so that the lock hook piece cannot be pulled out, connection of the upper shell and the lower shell of the lock is achieved, a locked object located between the upper shell and the lower shell cannot be separated out, and the locking function is achieved. In the unlocking state, after fingerprint recognition succeeds, the motor is started, the cam is driven to rotate, the first matching inclined face on the cam abuts against the second matching inclined face on the vertical push plate, the spring bolt piece is driven to be away from the lock hook side clamping groove, the spring bolt is made to be separated from the lock hook side clamping groove, separation of the upper shell and the lower shell is achieved, and the gun trigger lock is opened.

168 BC001-DA1021F1705A [75] Gun trigger locking fingerprint lock and control method
The invention belongs to the technical field of firearm safety devices, in particular to a gun trigger locking fingerprint lock and a control method thereof, the fingerprint lock comprises an upper lock body, a lower lock body, a fingerprint identification module, a motor driving mechanism, a locking mechanism, a mechanical key unlocking mechanism and a control circuit, wherein the upper lock body and the lower lock body can be separated from each other. The invention ensures physical safety through the mechanical engagement structure of the ratchet wheel-lock cylinder, ensures the reliability of action through the transmission mode of the cam-push rod, combines the control logic of the delayed automatic reset, realizes the intelligent control of the one-touch instant opening and the automatic reset, simultaneously reserves an extremely simple mechanical emergency unlocking means and perfectly balances convenience and safety.

169 BC001-3DD58E31397D [75] Gun trigger unlocked through biological fingerprint identification
The invention discloses a gun trigger unlocked through biological fingerprint identification. The gun trigger comprises a gun trigger shell body, a gun trigger shell cover and a machine shell; a control board is mounted at the top in the gun trigger shell body through screws; a fingerprint identifying module is mounted at the top of the control plate through a limiting groove; a fingerprint setting key is mounted on one side of the bottom end of the control plate through screws; the machine shell is arranged at the bottom end of the control plate; a motor is mounted in the machine shell through a mounting base; a rotating wheel is arranged on an output shaft of the motor through a fixing piece; an elliptic limiting plate is mounted at the bottom of the machine shell through bolts; an L-shaped rack lock tongue capable of sliding is arranged in the elliptic limiting plate; the gun trigger shell cover is mounted at the bottom of the gun trigger shell body through bolts; and a return spring is connected to the top of the gun trigger shell cover through a limiting clamping groove. The gun trigger unlocked through biological fingerprint identification is simple in structure, convenient to produce, high in unlocking efficiency, high in practicability and suitable for wide popularization and application.

170 BC001-FEBF3EACDF4D [75] Gun use and management latch means
The utility model discloses a gun use and management latch means, including placing the cabinet and installing the fingerprint identification lock of placing cabinet one side, the fixed slot has beenseted up to the one side of placing the cabinet, and the fingerprint identification lock is close to one side fixed mounting who places the cabinet has a fixed block, and fixed block movable mountingis in the fixed slot, and the draw -in groove has been seted up to the bottom of fixed block, seted up the mounting groove on the bottom inner wall of fixed slot, slidable mounting has movable columnin the mounting groove, and movable column's top fixed mounting has the carriage release lever, and the top fixed mounting of carriage release lever has the fixture block, and the fixture block clampswith the draw -in groove mutually, fixed mounting has a rotating electrical machines in the mounting groove, and the rotating electrical machines is located movable column's below, the welding has the reel on the output shaft of rotating electrical machines, and the reel is located movable column's below. The utility model discloses be convenient for carry out the dismouting to the fingerprint identification lock, when breaking down, be convenient for maintenance or change, simple structure, convenient to use.

171 BC001-8FEA5648F932 [75] Handbag
The invention discloses a handbag. The handbag comprises a handbag body and bag bands; the bag bands are positioned on the surfaces of the upper part of the handbag body; a fingerprint identificationswitch is arranged on the surface of the outer part of one bag band; a first connecting post is arranged at the upper part of the handbag body; one side of the first connecting post is connected witha second connecting post; a magnetic rod is arranged in the first connecting post; the internal structure of the second connecting post is the same as that of the first connecting post. According to the handbag, the fingerprint identification switch and a first electric telescopic rod are arranged, so that the handbag is effectively locked through personal exclusive fingerprint, and an anti-thefteffect is effectively achieved; a stun rod and a USB charging interface are arranged, so that the handbag can be effectively changed into a self-defence weapon, and a mobile phone can be charged through the USB charging interface; a voice operated switch inductor and an alarm are arranged, so that an alarm is effectively given to ensure personal and property security.

172 BC001-69F8BBFEF1B4 [75] Handgun case compatible with different-size guns and providing singlehanded access to and quick-ejection of handgun
In accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein, the present disclosure is related to a storage device for safely securing handguns while simultaneously enabling the handgun user to be immediately armed. Novel features comprise a quick-eject component that requires the user to use only one hand to both open the case and retrieve the gun; a configurable receiver that allows for the case to be compatible with different-size handguns; and an adjustable-tension component that enables configuration of the necessary tension so that the handgun is deployed with only the necessary amount of force. The disclosed storage device is mobile and lightweight and may be opened through various mechanisms, such as a biometric fingerprint reader. Methods for the manufacturing of such storage devices are also disclosed herein.

173 BC001-FC6C287FF235 [75] Hidden fingerprint identification access control system for firearm library
The utility model relates to a hidden fingerprint identification access control system for a firearm storehouse. Fingerprint access control field, key points of the technical scheme are as follows: the key points are as follows; storage door, a hidden groove is formed in the storehouse door; a fingerprint identifier is arranged in the hidden groove; a hidden plate is arranged on the storehouse door, an open hole is formed in the hidden plate, sliding grooves are formed in the two side walls of the open hole respectively, baffles are arranged at the bottoms of the two sliding grooves respectively, a movable plate matched with the open hole is arranged in the open hole, the movable plate is erected on the two baffles, and a plurality of rolling wheels are rotationally connected to the two sides of the movable plate respectively and move in the sliding grooves. Compared with the prior art, the fingerprint identifier has the technical effects that the fingerprint identifier has concealmentand is not easy to discover by lawbreakers, and the possibility that the lawbreakers discover that the fingerprint identification access control system is arranged at the position and then make relevant preparations in advance to crack the fingerprint identification access control system is reduced.

174 BC001-FDA611677C7C [75] Holder with biometric drive
HOLDER WITH BIOMETRIC DRIVE. Aiming at municipal, civil, military, federal, army or special troops who use regularly (holsters) in their full exercise of the function, the biometric holster has the main function of locking / unlocking, through biometric electronic activation, the looting of firearms such as revolvers or pistols of any caliber, from its due security compartment called tactical holster. It is a holster with electronic functions and biometric activation, equipment with individual electromagnetic physical lock for carrying and supporting firearms for public users, whose main purpose is the physical protection itself against accidents, looting or improper subtraction of the weapon by third parties, friend or enemy, only possible to loot or unlock itself when necessary, through simple and quick contact personalized with the user's own biometrics in up to 0.5 seconds.

175 BC001-078C0C973C86 [75] Intelligence pickproof lock based on unlocking by mobile phone
The utility model discloses an intelligence pickproof lock based on unlocking by mobile phone, including lock shell, alarm, trick lock and fingerprint lockaid gun, be provided with above the lock shell the alarm, be provided with the key hole above the alarm, install the door handle above the key hole, install the doorbell button above the door handle, one side of doorbell button is provided with householder's talk key, the higher authority of householder's talk key is provided with the trick lock, install the higher authority of trick lock the fingerprint lockaid gun, one side of fingerprint lockaid gun is provided with the microphone, the password locking closure is installed to one side of trick lock, one side of lock shell is provided with the bar code, be provided with USB cell -phone charger below the bar code. Beneficial effect lies in: can set up dynamic password, when the key was lost or is not hand -carried, accessible input password or fingerprint identification unblanked, have alarming function simultaneously, theftproof ability reinforce, and the security is high.

176 BC001-3D9ABBCCB2B4 [75] Intelligence remote control lock system
The utility model relates to an intelligence remote control lock system, including lockaid gun and lock, wherein, the lockaid gun includes the main part, is equipped with on the main part is positive and presses bonding region and display screen and display lamp, and the main part top is equipped with signal antennas, and the main part back is equipped with fingerprint system and do not installs, the lock is including the power, treater, the electromagnetic means that connect gradually, the electromagnetic means elastic connection lock core, induction system is connected to the lock core. Through the lockaid gun press bonding region input lock number and password, realizes a lockaid gun and can open the lock of a plurality of differences, need not to take multiple key again and opening the door the card, easy operation facilitates the use, passes through fingerprint identification device simultaneously, reaches multiple protection, prevent that other people are improper to unblank, so, unblank safer.

177 BC001-DD7CB801DAD2 [75] Intelligent all -in -one of engineering project safety control
The utility model discloses an intelligent all -in -one of engineering project safety control, including shell subassembly, intraware and operation module, operation module includes working bin, the fog gun equipment of spraying, work district, door and electronic lock, the right side of box is equipped with the working bin, the working bin with box fixed connection, the left side of working bin is equipped with the door, the door with the working bin rotates to be connected, the electronic lock is located the inside of door, and with door fixed connection, the inside top of working bin is equipped with the fog gun equipment of spraying, through having set up dust sensing contact and the fog gun equipment of spraying, detect construction environmental pollution degree at the all -in -one and when higher, just start the fog gun equipment of spraying, can dust suppression, improve work -site's environmental aspect, still set up the fingerprint induction zone, prescribe a limit to the crowd who gets into work -site like this, avoid the entering of non - construction operator.

178 BC001-93B3161C2962 [75] Intelligent anti-intrusion system
The invention relates to an intelligent anti-intrusion system, which comprises a sensing system, a control system and a feedback system, wherein the sensing system and the feedback system are connected through the control system; the sensing system comprises a code keyboard, a face identification unit and an iris identification unit; a fingerprint identification unit is arranged on the code keyboard; the fingerprint identification unit is arranged on code keys; the fingerprint identification is performed when the code keys are triggered; the face identification unit and the iris identification unit are arranged at one side of the code keyboard; code, fingerprint, facial form and iris information is judged by the control system; when all information is matched, the feedback system is not operated. The intelligent anti-intrusion system has the advantages that the vicious intrusion can be effectively prevented; the anti-intrusion performance is improved; the bilateral interaction between the anti-intrusion system and a remote master and remote control system and a police work system is realized; the performance of the anti-intrusion system is obviously improved; the security safety of the anti-intrusion system is improved; the master property and the personnel safety are effectively guaranteed; the criminal offenders are frightened; the timeliness and the validity are improved.

179 BC001-CB79EAC850BD [75] Intelligent automatic safety valve for light weapon and mounting method of intelligent automatic safety valve
The invention discloses an intelligent automatic safety valve for a light weapon and a mounting method of the intelligent automatic safety valve. The intelligent automatic safety valve comprises a rotary valve disc, wherein a buckling cover is movably connected to the interior of the top end of the middle section of the rotary valve disc, a motor is fixedly mounted in the buckling cover, a fingerprint verifier is fixedly mounted on the right side edge of the rotary valve disc, an identification center is fixedly mounted on the right side in the rotary valve disc, a controller is fixedly mounted in the left side of the rotary valve disc, and a power connection pipe is fixedly mounted at the bottom end of the controller. According to the intelligent automatic safety valve for the light weapon and the mounting method of the intelligent automatic safety valve, a fingerprint identification module can use the fingerprint verifier to verify fingerprints of a user, therefore, when the safety valve is used, the safety valve is mounted outside the light weapon, if the verified fingerprints are incorrect, next-step identification cannot be conducted, independent usability of the light weapon connected with the safety valve is improved, and the problem of potential safety hazards caused by the fact that the light weapon is used by others is solved.

180 BC001-FA6E98F89C32 [75] Intelligent fire blanket security and protection system
The invention relates to an intelligent fire blanket security and protection system which is used for public places, transportation means, business supermarkets and families. The intelligent fire blanket security and protection system can delay fire spreading, and automatically identify pickpockets, robbers and attack terrorists. When firing, robbing and terrorist attacking occur to the public places and the families, an intelligent fire blanket capable of outfiring or delaying fire behavior by covering flames can be nearby obtained. A mobile terminal is internally arranged for fire alarm automatic calling, the fire condition is expounded to 119 customer services, and position information is provided. Through an image identifying technology, bus robbers, house breaking burglars and terrorist attacking criminal suspects are identified, images, fingerprints and DNA physical evidences are obtained, and the intelligent fire blanket security and protection system expels the bus robbers, the house breaking burglars and the terrorist attacking criminal suspects through intelligent voice.

181 BC001-D3083503FD85 [75] Intelligent safety lock for gun
The invention discloses an intelligent safety lock for a gun. The intelligent safety lock comprises a left lock seat and a right lock seat which are locked with each other. The left lock seat and the right lock seat can be fixedly clamped at a trigger position of the gun after being locked with each other, the right lock seat comprises a lock frame and a lock seat shell, a fingerprint acquisition plate is arranged on the lock seat shell, the lock frame and the lock seat shell are fixedly integrally connected with each other, an accommodating cavity is formed inside the lock frame and the lock seat shell, and a locking mechanism, an intelligent fingerprint processing module and a motor are arranged in the accommodating cavity; the left lock seat is provided with a spring bolt which can extends into the accommodating cavity of the right lock seat and can be fittingly locked with the locking mechanism; the fingerprint acquisition plate, the intelligent fingerprint processing module and the motor are connected with one another by electric signals. The intelligent safety lock has the advantages that the safety lock can be unlocked in a fingerprint recognition mode and accordingly is high in safety performance; the intelligent safety lock can be quickly locked and unlocked, can be operated easily and conveniently and is reliable in use.

182 BC001-BC0B79571806 [75] Intelligent self-service oil adding device and method
The invention discloses an intelligent self-service oil adding device. The intelligent self-service oil adding device comprises a tax-control computer device and further comprises a control board, a flow measuring converter, an indication module, a printing device, an input module, an IC card reading-writing terminal, a display module and a camera shooting module which are connected with the tax-control computer device. The tax-control computer device is connected intoan oil station management system. The control boardenables an anti-explosion motor to be connected to an oil pump. The controlboard enablesan oil observer to be connected to an oil gun through an electromagnetic valve, and the on-off states of the oil gun are controlled by the tax-control computer device. The flow measuringconverter is used for detecting flow and inputting detected flow signals to the tax-control computer device. The control board controls the anti-explosion motor and the electromagnetic valve on the oil gun according to control instructions of the tax-control computer device. The camera shooting module is used for obtaining a current user image and transmitting image signals to the tax-control computer device, and the tax-control computer device conducts human face recognition on the current user image. According to the intelligent self-service oil adding device, oil adding personnel is guidedfor oil adding, the labor cost of a gas station is reduced, and the oil adding efficiency is improved.

183 BC001-94BCFC96EEDF [75] Intelligent trigger lock
An intelligent trigger lock employs biometric authentication for securely locking a firearm by blocking access to a trigger. The intelligent trigger lock includes: a housing formed to the contours of the firearm; a cavity within the housing configured to receive the trigger; a locking pin inserted through the housing; a contact point; electronic circuitry operable to release the locking pin upon receiving biometric authentication; and a power source.

184 BC001-C3EC9746FA1D [75] Intelligent weapon chamber cleaning safety management equipment and system
The invention belongs to the technical field of public security, armed police and army equipment management equipment, and particularly relates to intelligent weapon chamber cleaning safety management equipment and system.The intelligent weapon chamber cleaning safety management equipment comprises a metal bulletproof barrel body, a containing cavity is formed in the metal bulletproof barrel body, and a gun inlet is formed in the end face of the metal bulletproof barrel body and communicates with the containing cavity; a user interaction end is arranged on the end face of the metal bulletproof barrel body and located on the rear side of the gun inlet. The metal bulletproof barrel body is internally provided with the bulletproof inner shell, two layers of bulletproof structures are adopted, the two layers of bulletproof structures are both made of high-strength Q235 steel and a polymer composite bulletproof material in a composite mode, meanwhile, the metal bulletproof barrel body is filled with the damping sand layer, the influence caused by mistaken touch can be effectively avoided in the verification process, and the equipment has the effective mistaken touch protection capacity; meanwhile, by integrating a face identity recognition module, a fingerprint identity recognition module and a police identity card identity recognition module and arranging a touch screen for guiding operation in real time, the equipment is more convenient to operate, and when verification is abnormal, the sound-light alarm end can play a role to achieve the alarm effect.

185 BC001-2CF3C561B1BE [75] Intelligentized all-in-one machine for engineering project safety management
The invention discloses an intelligentized all-in-one machine for engineering project safety management. The intelligentized all-in-one machine comprises a housing assembly, an internal assembly and an operating assembly, wherein the operating assembly comprises a working bin, a fog gun spraying device, a labor zone, a bin door and an electronic lock, the working bin is arranged on the right sideof a box body and is fixedly connected with the box body, the bin door is arranged on the left side of the working bin, the bin door is in rotary connection with the working bin, the electronic lock is located in the bin door and is fixedly connected with the bin door, and the fog gun spraying device is arranged at the upper portion of the inside of the working bin. By arranging a dust sensing contact and the fog gun spraying device, the fog gun spraying device is started when the all-in-one machine detects that the pollution degree of a construction environment is higher, dust concentration can be reduced, the environment condition of a construction place is improved, and a fingerprint sensing zone is also arranged, so that people entering the construction place is limited, and non-operation workers are prevented from entering.

186 BC001-71F9B3323F45 [75] Lock assembly
FIELD: locking devices, particularly for individual gun safes.SUBSTANCE: lock assembly uses person's biometrical parameter, namely straightened finger length ratio, as a key for lock assembly opening. Lock assembly comprises code mechanism tuned to said ratio and activated as user inserts fingers in inlet port thereof.EFFECT: increased convenience of lock usage along with secrecy degree retention.5 cl, 20 dwg

187 BC001-1C9E919E0980 [75] Lock with fingerprint identification
The invention discloses a lock with fingerprint identification, and belongs to the technical field of fingerprint identification. The lock comprises a left lock body and a right lock body, a fingerprint identification chip is embedded in the center of the surface of the left lock body, a buzzer is embedded in the top of the right side of the left lock body, an indicator lamp is embedded in the center of the right side of the left lock body, a storage chip is arranged at the bottom of the right side of the left lock body, a mainboard is screwed at the bottom of an inner cavity of the left lockbody, and input ports of the fingerprint identification chip, the buzzer, the indicator lamp and the storage chip are welded with the bottom of the mainboard through an electric soldering iron. The fingerprint identification chip is adopted to identify the fingerprint of a user for unlocking, a gun lock adopting the fingerprint identification technology does not need a key and passwords, use is convenient, safety is good, the storage safety of a gun is improved, the gun is prevented from being used by children or people who do not reach the using age of the gun, mistaken injuries and other dangerous behaviors caused by playing the gun by the children are prevented, and other people can be prevented from robbing and stealing the gun to threaten the safety of themselves or other people.

188 BC001-9B1106370049 [75] Lock with fingerprint identification function
The utility model discloses a lock with a fingerprint identification function, and belongs to the technical field of fingerprint identification. The lock comprises a left lock body and a right lock body, a fingerprint identification chip is embedded in the center of the surface of the left lock body; a buzzer is embedded in the top of the right side of the left lock body, an indicator lamp is embedded in the center of the right side of the left lock body, a storage chip is arranged at the bottom of the right side of the left lock body, a mainboard is screwed to the bottom of an inner cavity ofthe left lock body, and input ports of the fingerprint recognition chip, the buzzer, the indicator lamp and the storage chip are welded to the bottom of the mainboard through electric soldering irons. According to the utility model, the fingerprint identification chip is used to identify a user fingerprint for unlocking; the utility model discloses a gun lock adopting a fingerprint identificationtechnology. The gun storage box is simple in structure, convenient to use, good in safety and capable of improving gun storage safety, preventing children or people who do not reach the gun use age from using guns, preventing children from accidentally injuring other dangerous behaviors when playing guns, and preventing other people from threatening the safety of themselves or other people aftersnatching and stealing the guns.

189 BC001-9D26C43607F0 [75] Long gunstock for infrared detection of gun in-place state
The utility model relates to the technical field of gun instruments, and discloses a long gun stock for infrared detection of the in-place state of a gun, which comprises a storage cabinet, the lower end of the storage cabinet is fixedly connected with supporting legs, the front side of the storage cabinet is provided with a sealing door, the sealing door is provided with a fingerprint and face recognition mechanism, and the sealing door is provided with an alcohol detector. A moisture absorption pad is fixedly connected to the inner wall of the storage cabinet, a storage box is fixedly connected into the storage cabinet, and a storage mechanism is arranged in the storage box. According to the long gunstock for infrared detection of the gun in-place state, the utilization rate of a storage cabinet is increased, more guns can be stored, meanwhile, due to the fact that the storage tank covers the storage tank, external dust can be effectively prevented from entering the storage tank to corrode the guns, the safety of the guns during storage is guaranteed, the rusting phenomenon is avoided, and the safety of the guns is improved. And meanwhile, the contact area with external air is avoided, so that the oxidation phenomenon of the metal firmware is avoided, and the use safety is ensured.

190 BC001-64515357F734 [75] Magazine and its intelligent verification system comprising a cartridge chamber, a cartridge support spring, a cartridge support plate, a casing, and a locking mechanism to allow dedicated personnel to use the magazine through fingerprint comparison and facial recognition
The present invention relates to a magazine and its intelligent verification system, comprising: a cartridge chamber, with an upper end provided with a cartridge opening, adapted to accommodate a plurality of bullets; a cartridge support spring positioned at the bottom of the cartridge chamber; a cartridge support plate located at the upper end of the cartridge support spring; a casing, which encloses the cartridge chamber, cartridge support spring, and cartridge support plate; and a locking mechanism, which is disposed between the sidewall of the cartridge chamber and the casing to lock and seal the cartridge opening, thereby preventing the loading and unloading of bullets. This invention enables bullet control and achieves single-gun, single-person usage. The main structure involves installing a locking mechanism on the magazine as an execution unit, while also providing a control module. The control module intelligently manages the magazine, and when in use, fingerprint comparison and facial recognition enable dedicated personnel to use the magazine.

191 BC001-31DB7392FA11 [75] Mechanical long-distance pulse stun gun
The utility model provides a mechanical long-distance pulse stun gun which comprises a gun body, a gun handle and a trigger, a battery and an electric controller are arranged in the gun handle, the battery is electrically connected with the electric controller, firing pins are electrically connected with the electric controller through elastic wires, the trigger is electrically connected with the electric controller, and a fingerprint identifier is arranged on the surface of the gun body. The fingerprint identifier is electrically connected with the battery and the electric controller, a fan assembly is installed at the inner bottom of the gun handle, and the fan assembly corresponds to an air outlet hole formed in the bottom of the gun handle. Remote shooting of lawbreakers is achieved through the firing pin for electric shock, and close-range dangerous contact between a user and the lawbreakers is effectively avoided; after the identity is confirmed through the fingerprint identifier, the shooting lawless person can be effectively operated to perform electric shock, so that the lawless person is prevented from performing anti-abstraction to injure the user, and the safety is high; heat generated by the battery is gathered in the gun handle, and the heat gathered in the gun handle is guided and fanned out from the air outlet through starting of the fan assembly, so that heat dissipation is achieved.

192 BC001-7A8941971811 [75] Medical information system based on face recognition
The utility model discloses a medical information system based on face recognition, which comprises a plurality of terminals and a first storage server in communication connection with the terminals and used for storing patient information. The terminal machine comprises a machine body, and an operation window is arranged at the upper part of the machine body; a control mainboard for controlling the whole machine is arranged on the inner side of the machine body; a camera is arranged at the top of the machine body, a display screen is arranged at the upper part of the inner side of the operation window, and an embedded card reader and a second-generation identity card reader are arranged at the position, below the display screen, of the operation window; a binding button and an unbinding button are arranged on the side of the machine body; the machine body is provided with a trigger window below the operation window; according to the medical information system based on face recognition, the identity card, the medical insurance card or the doctor-seeing card of the patient is bound with the face of the accompanying person, so that the face of the accompanying person is used for replacing a patient identity certificate, and the use process is simple and convenient.

193 BC001-C9C6976AF23A [75] Method and apparatus for secure gun control by using biometrics
PURPOSE: A safety device for a gun using biometrics and a control method thereof are provided to control permission to use a gun by recognizing the identity of a user from bio information including the iris and finger vein patterns of the user.CONSTITUTION: A safety device for a gun using biometrics comprises an iris recognition part(110), a finger vein recognition part(120), and a controller(130). The iris recognition part is installed in the iron sight of a gun and analyzes infrared rays reflected off user's eyes to obtain an iris image. The finger vein recognition part is installed in the trigger of the gun, scans infrared rays to user's finger contacting the trigger, and analyzes the infrared ray passing through the finger to obtain a finger vein image. The controller extracts iris pattern information and finger vein pattern information from the iris and finger vein images, performs user authentication using the iris pattern information or finger vein pattern information, and controls the lock device of the gun according to the user authentication result.COPYRIGHT KIPO 2011

194 BC001-0A3054B25A9B [75] Method for controlling firearm safety based on Internet of things and smart firearm
An embodiment of the invention discloses a method for controlling firearm safety based on Internet of things (IOT) and a smart firearm. The method comprises the following steps: acquiring position information at a present moment by the smart firearm; acquiring biological feature information of a user by a biological feature acquisition module arranged on a surface of the smart firearm after determining that the smart firearm is located in an authorized region according to the position information; and unlocking the smart firearm when determining that the biological feature information is matched with preset biological feature information. In the embodiment of the invention, after the smart firearm is located in the authorized region, the user can unlock the smart firearm by inputting fingerprint information, a use range of the smart firearm can be limited and the authorized users can be allowed to use the smart firearm. In addition, after the smart firearm leaves the authorized region,the alarm can be given timely and the position information of the smart firearm can be reported in real time.

195 BC001-8E6A153A470D [75] Mobile bass (bio arms security system) external lock system for weapon via biometric scanning system. (multisystem)
1818

196 BC001-F84C3FDE409E [75] Mobile blood bank identity recognition system
The utility model discloses a mobile blood bank identity recognition system which comprises a main controller and further comprises an information input system, a box door control system, a log system, a communication system and an alarm system which are electrically connected with the main controller. The information input system comprises at least one of a fingerprint recognition device, a face recognition device, an iris recognition device and a sound recognition device; the hardware structure of the information input system comprises at least one of an inner camera device, an outer camera device, a code scanning gun and a manual input device. The system can identify the identity of an operator.

197 BC001-0F25A227758C [75] Multi-element control pistol lock
The utility model discloses a multi-element control pistol lock which comprises an upper lock sleeve and a lower lock sleeve, a lock rod is installed in the upper lock sleeve, a lock cavity is formed in the lower lock sleeve, the lock rod can extend into the lock cavity, and a locking mechanism for locking the lock rod is arranged in the lock cavity. The pistol lock is used for locking a pistol and limiting pulling of a trigger in the pistol, multi-element control can be carried out through fingerprints and keys, unlocking methods are diversified, control is convenient, and higher flexibility and convenience are provided; the upper lock sleeve and the lower lock sleeve can be mutually bounced off by a certain distance during unlocking, so that a user can conveniently separate the upper lock sleeve and the lower lock sleeve; the surfaces of the upper lock sleeve and the lower lock sleeve, which are adhered to the trigger of the pistol, are sleeved with the rubber sleeves, so that the pistol is prevented from being scratched in the locking process.

198 BC001-E97EF9DF34FD [75] Multifunctional complaint service terminal
The utility model provides a multifunctional complaint service terminal which is characterized in that a case lower cover is connected with a case upper cover; the hanging plate is connected with the case upper cover, and the hanging plate can be connected with a wall surface and also can be connected with the bracket; the touch display is connected with the case upper cover; the keyboard is clamped with the keyboard fixing bracket through the case upper cover, and the keyboard fixing bracket is connected with the case upper cover; the identity card reader is connected with the case upper cover; the fingerprint identifier is connected with the case upper cover; the scanning gun is connected with the case upper cover; the receipt printer is connected with the case upper cover; the binocular camera is connected with the case upper cover; the sound box is connected with the case upper cover; and the AI voice recognizer is connected with the case upper cover. The binocular camera is also provided with a camera adjusting rod. According to the multifunctional complaint service terminal provided by the utility model, the file and case processing efficiency is improved, the functions of convenient inquiry, automatic identity recognition, information publication and display and the like are realized, and the working intensity of workers is reduced.

199 BC001-6BE95EE00021 [75] Patent document management system
The invention provides a patent document management system. The patent document management system provided by the invention can improve patent document management and application working efficiency and has high practicability; by virtue of a CPU control system, a fingerprint lock and a bar code scanning gun, intelligent management and automatic borrowing of a storage cabinet are achieved; patent documents are managed by virtue of the CPU control system and portfolio bar codes, so that the positions of the patent documents can be determined and intelligent searching of the documents can be conducted; the positions of the patient documents can be indicated by virtue of an indicator light, and by virtue of a motor, round placing plates are driven to rotate, so that portfolios, which contain the patent documents, are rotated to the front sides of inquirers; the portfolios can be fixed by virtue of magnetic strips, and by virtue of partition boards, viewing spaces are offered to the inquirers; portfolio regions are freely divided into various sizes by virtue of clamping plates and separating blocks, the regions, which are divided, are marked by virtue of a first marking piece, a secondmarking piece and a third marking piece and documents of different categories can be kept in each region; and by virtue of the drawing-type partition boards and a bottom cover, the patent documents can be searched and picked conveniently.

200 BC001-164F573F5B6B [75] Patient dress accurate distribution and recovery system
The system comprises a base, a dispensing cabinet and a recycling cabinet are arranged on the base side by side, the dispensing cabinet is of a rectangular structure and is provided with multiple layers of drawers from top to bottom, the drawers are provided with electronic locks, a processor and a fingerprint machine are arranged above the dispensing cabinet, and a code scanning gun is arranged on the side face of the dispensing cabinet; the recycling cabinet is of a rectangular structure, a round hole with a cover is formed in the upper portion of the recycling cabinet, a movable door is arranged at the front end of the recycling cabinet, a code scanner is arranged on the movable door, and a garbage can with an opening in the upper portion is arranged in the recycling cabinet. The patient dress can be managed reasonably and efficiently.

201 BC001-5580B4755680 [75] Pistol anti-robbery protection device
A handgun tamper-evident device comprising an integral sensing fingerprint identification device electrically linking more than one locking device to form a protective device mounted on a barrel, a waistband, or a gun strap, the locking device of which may be provided at one end of the barrel and the buckle strap, or at a corresponding gun bow within the barrel, or at a waistband buckle, or at a strap buckle, The body sensing fingerprint identification device is mounted on the surface of the barrel, or at the waistband buckle, or at the strap buckle, and is unlocked by pressing the first power source for activation, and then the fingerprint identification mechanism is activated to identify the person who is correct by simultaneously firing a lock at the bow and a lock at one end of the buckle, thereby removing the gun from service immediately, not only safely controlling the use of the gun branch, but also effectively preventing the use of the gun branch.

202 BC001-1ED02234DCF8 [75] RFID or Biometric Locking Mechanism Fitted on a Concealed Pocket of a Container Operated via a Mobile Application or Through an RFID Article or Other Biometric Technologies
A concealed carry weapon (CCW) container offers a user a fail-secure locking mechanism to ensure that the CCW stays locked at all times even when there is no power. The CCW container enables the user to quickly and automatically unlock when the user utilizes the biometric recognition system, a pass code, or an RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) tag. The CCW container employs interior and exterior lighting, quick access magnetic closure with or without a locking mechanism attached, and a ballistic armor plate to protect the user's vital body parts using the ballistic armor plat as a shield. Further, a method for managing the fail-secure locking mechanism allows the user to efficiently access the CCW content using a mobile app, the RFID tag, or any other biometric technology. Additionally, the method provides a panic switch that alerts security authorities of an incident and forwarding any salient video or sound thereto.

203 BC001-6471196B3543 [75] Rifle and handheld gun magazine accessory for security
Described herein is a physical interlocking rifle or gun magazine that temporarily incapacitates the weapon but allows the owner to quickly remove the safety magazine and insert a usable magazine with live ammunition to respond to an emergency situation. In one example embodiment, the safety magazine includes a biometric actuator that identifies an authorized user of the weapon and immediately disengages that interlocking mechanism in the safety magazine to allow its prompt removal and replacement with an operative magazine.

204 BC001-215F98476030 [75] Scanning gun device capable of being in wireless connection with computer
The present invention provides a kind of scanning gun apparatus that can be connect with computer radio, including operating switch, fingerprint module, small-sized receipt printer and compact horn；Fingerprint module is inlaid on the outside of the scanning gun body, and the control circuit board of side is electrically connected in fingerprint module and scanner body, the inside of the scanning gun body is additionally provided with operating switch, the inside of two groups of display placing grooves is also rotatably equipped with second display and the first display, the top both ends of the scanning gun body are separately installed with article probe and payment probe, and compact horn is connected in control circuit board also by conducting wire, the bottom end of the scanning gun body is also equipped with small-sized receipt printer, operating switch could be only opened after fingerprint authentication passes through, it can accomplish that scanner special messenger is dedicated, after scanning the price to article and after the amount of money of payment, it is broadcasted by compact horn, after the completion of customer payment, pass through small-sized receipt printer printed invoice, save the time.

205 BC001-DCE1A770858C [75] Seal for reducing the speed of projectiles fired by high-powered firearms
The present invention relates to a seal for reducing the speed of projectiles fired by a high-powered firearms, designed to be incorporated inside a projectile recovery chamber of the type used in forensic ballistics laboratories in which experts or specialists perform studies to identify firearms and tool marks, also known as ballistic mechanical fingerprinting, which each firearm imprints particularly on the cartridge shells and projectiles fired by same. The reducer seal comprises a receptacle that is provided with a removable or hatch-type lid and contains a cartridge made from a material that reduces the speed of projectiles, the cartridge being inserted into the chamber such that the cartridge is positioned in the line of fire of the high-powered firearm in order to substantially reduce the speed of the projectile before it impacts the speed reducing means of the chamber.

206 BC001-BE28DE42DE7B [75] Secured firearm
The present invention describes a secured firearm, including semi-automatic pistols and revolvers, which has a permanently mounted locking device 1 in front of a trigger guard 3 and under a barrel 4. The locking device 1 locks a locking bar 7 which restricts the movement of a slide 5 or a cylinder 30, thereby disabling the secured firearm. The locking device 1 is attached to the outside of the secured firearm. Therefor, the impact on the inside of the secured firearm can be minimized. Any kind of lock can be used as the locking device 1 as long as it is compact enough to be installed in the housing of the locking device 1. For example, a key lock, a combination lock, an electric lock, and a biometric lock such as fingerprint authentication are all applicable to the locking device 1. The locking device 1 is fixed to the secured firearm firmly with screws from inside of the frame, whereby unauthorized dismantling of the locking device 1 is prevented. There is no possibility that the locking device 1 is lost during the secured firearm is used. It does not contact a trigger nor a hammer. Therefore, there is no possibility of accidental firing of the secured firearm due to mishandling of the locking device 1. The locking device 1 is applicable to both current handguns and newly designed handguns.

207 BC001-61DDC61B1F48 [75] Security enclosure for a gun
A security enclosure for a handgun includes an enclosure base having an opening to an interior portion and a cover configured to selectively cover the opening in the enclosure base. The cover may be configured in a manner to rotate from a first position in which the cover blocks access to the interior portion of the enclosure base to a second position in which the cover allows access to the interior portion of the enclosure base. A gun enclosure may be rotatably disposed within the enclosure base. A biometric recognition device may be configured to operatively unlock the cover when exposed to a required feature of an authorized user.

208 BC001-718106BFB35D [75] Smart firearm safety device
The invention provides an improved Firearm Safety Device and Mechanism through design and application of personalization, biometric authentication, localization, artificial Intelligence, wireless connectivity, and position sensing. We invented a Firearm Safety Device earlier in 2014 and granted US patent in 2015. Now that the device and system is improved, we intend to cover additional claims through this application in Canada.

209 BC001-BA9EE96AE0BE [75] Smart triggering device for a firearm
The present invention provides a smart triggering device for restricting unauthorized access to a firearm. The smart triggering device is capable of configuring with a trigger of the firearm. The access is provided by activating the trigger of the firearm based on the biometric input of a user. An electromechanical stopper of the smart triggering device activates the trigger based on the biometric input.

210 BC001-58FAB7B629D1 [75] Split fingerprint lock
Split fingerprint lock provided by the invention comprises lock body end, handheld terminal lockaid gun, emergent unlocking key, and described lock body end comprises lock body upper cover, lock body lower cover, part fixture, the mechanism that is dynamically connected, Electromagnetic Control mechanism, emergent lock, finger prints processing chip; The mechanism that is dynamically connected is arranged in the handheld terminal jack of lock body end, and the mechanism that is dynamically connected is connected with Electromagnetic Control mechanism, is provided with an emergent connecting rod that does in lock body, emergent connecting rod one end and the phase-locked company of meeting an urgent need of doing, and one end is connected with Electromagnetic Control mechanism.When emergent unlocking, the emergent connecting rod that does pulls electromagnetic core deviate from the to be dynamically connected square groove of part two, removes restriction, then rotates the mechanism that is dynamically connected and unblank.When the present invention has realized emergent unlocking, emergent lock coordinates and unblanks with the mechanism's acting in conjunction that is dynamically connected, and has improved the safety factor of lockset.Unique split-type design, makes management in enormous quantities multiple during by locking device, and lockset cost significantly reduces, service efficiency improves, maintenance cost reduces, and is improved by the safety factor of locking device.

211 BC001-81671BF60493 [75] System and method for authenticating an identity for a biometrically-enabled gun
Embodiments of the present invention may include a biometrically-enabled gun. The biometrically-enabled gun may detect a presence of a user. In response to detecting a presence of a user, a processor may be awoken from a power-saving mode. The processor may query for a presence of a finger of a user. A fingerprint image may be captured. A template of the captured fingerprint image may be generated. A correlation between the template and one or more authorized user templates may be determined. In response to the correlation exceeding a threshold, a processor may cause an actuator may unlock the gun. In response to a lapse of user contact with the gun, a processor may cause the actuator to lock the gun.

212 BC001-A2A50F75BB2B [75] System and method incorporating ai and human capabilities in a gun
An AI device, attached to or in a firearm, a processor, camera, front and rear lens, laser to assist sighting. AI identifies “friend” or “foe” images on camera screen. Trademarked: AI GUN™. “Friend” or “foe” images are framed on camera's screen. “Friends” are child heads, family members, 2+people, police uniforms & badges, military uniforms with American Flag patches etc., AI un-blocks trigger for non-friends-“foes”. Pressed trigger authorizes firing. AI fires the gun at framed target. Shooter aims laser to target. AI locks trigger if “friends” are in view. With military use side camera screen shooter sees what the gun is aimed at while protected behind cover. When laser beam crosses framed “foe”, gun fires accurately, additional firing is possible with more framed targets. AI approves or denies user. Unauthorized use triggers alarm and flashing light. Facial recognition, fingerprint image or PIN code lock is used.

213 BC001-9A52EC9D75F4 [75] System for Locking a Purchase and a Fire Builder
The present invention provides a magazine holding a bullet and electronics configured to be locked/unlocked by a biometric feature or a wireless signal, the magazine comprising a housing having a capacity to hold both a row of cartridges and the electronics. The housing is dimensioned to be insertable into a standard firearm without requiring any changes to the firearm. In addition, the magazine can include a mechanical element extending longitudinally outside of the housing or a cartridge barrier element preventing a cartridge from exiting the housing of the magazine; and, in response to being released by the received wireless signal or biometric feature, Manual or electromechanical actuation means to push and pull the mechanical element; and electronic means within the housing to process incoming wireless signals to actuate all means, and a mobile power supply attached to the housing.

214 BC001-8AFECD3DBB9F [75] System for controlling access to bank branches
The system is applicable to bank branches provided with cabins or lock-type (double) doors for controlling access and which in turn have a metal-detecting arch which locks the inner door of the cabin should it detect any metallic element which might be a weapon. The system consists in incorporating in the cabin or lock-type door 1 a device for sensing physiological constants, preferably a biometric hand detector 5 capable of detecting, on the hand of the person attempting to gain access to the establishment, substantial modifications in specific physiological parameters thereof, in the event of said person feeling the tension and anxiety generated immediately prior to a criminal act, such as, for example, a robbery. This system enables the metal-detecting arch 4 to be in a second plane, or it may even be dispensed with, which makes the access of persons to the bank branch more fluid and easier.

215 BC001-C4F24016EF46 [75] System for keeping guns based on biometrics
The present invention relates to a biometric gun storage system which comprises: a gun storage case assembly including a plurality of unit gun storage cases storing guns, respectively; a door disposed in each unit gun storage case of the gun storage case assembly to open/close the unit gun storage case; a first locking unit locking or unlocking the door; a biometric information recognition unit recognizing biometric information of a gun officer of the guns which are stored in the unit gun storage cases, respectively; and a control unit controlling the first locking unit when the biometric information recognition unit recognizes the biometric information of the gun officer. Accordingly, the system stores a plurality of guns to prevent the guns from being easily taken out, allows only the gun officer to store the gun in the gun storage case and take out the stored gun, and simplifies the configuration for storing a plurality of guns.

216 BC001-555E953575EF [75] Weapon trigger detection system
The present invention relates to a detection system for weapon triggers. the invention uses a microscanner at the level of the weapon trigger. Said microscanner (Fig. 1 a) must operate each time a bullet projectile.Caractérisé is fired, in that the microscanner analyzes the imprint of the weapon user, then it sends the analysis result to a microprocessor. Said microprocessor (Fig. A2) compares the sent information and the information saved in an integrated memory card (Fig. 1 A3). When the analyzed fingerprint and the preserved fingerprint are the same, the locking device does not operate. In the event of a detected difference between the analyzed fingerprint and the saved fingerprint. The microcontroller sends an electric signal through a battery (Fig. 1 a 5), said electric signal operating an electromagnetic relay (Fig. 1 a 4). The latter locks the weapon sear.

217 BC001-5946DA63E67B [75] Weapon with safety system
Weapon with a security system, characterized in that it comprises an identification device for the user carrying the weapon, connected to a control module that controls a trigger locking system (2) of the weapon, configured to unlock the weapon if the user is correctly identified, or to block the trigger (2) if the user is not correctly identified, where the user identification device comprises a fingerprint reader (1) and the locking system is formed by a pin moved by a motor, configured so that the pin (3) is inserted through a through hole (4) made in the trigger (2) blocking its movement, the motor being powered by a battery.

218 BC001-361390E351DC [65] Automatic scope zoom sensing for rifle mounted clip-on fire control displays
An automatic zoom-sensing riflescope display adapter (RDA) system can illuminate an iris of a user with a beam from a light emitter. The RDA system can activate a display which includes at least one graphical element visible by the user through an eyepiece. Additionally, the RDA system can focus an image of the iris on a sensor.The RDA system can determine a diameter of the iris from the image of the iris using an iris analyzer. The RDA system can develop a calibration table that correlates the diameter of the iris to a zoom level of an optical scope. The RDA system can estimate the zoom level of the optical scope from the diameter of the iris via the calibration table. Additionally, the RDA system can adjust, to match the zoom level, a font size of the at least one graphical element of the display.

219 BC001-EC06FA2CBD2B [65] Fingerprint collection device for access control and personal weapons and other systems controlled thereby
The numerical aperture (NA) of the optical fiber is reduced to allow the cross-lighting phenomenon of the optical fiber prism assembly to be tolerated so as not to exceed 0.5 if possible. A substantial portion of the light travels along the optical fiber based on a fine image, such as a fingerprint, at an input end of the assembly. At the assembly output, a detector responds to the electrical signal arrangement based on the surface undulations. These signals are processed to check the identity of fingerprints or the like, as well as used to control access to personal weapons, other equipment, facilities, data, or money services. As much as possible, the assembly uses a separation element such as, for example, an optical fiber taper (through which the input light does not cross) that is high NA due to out-of-area absorption of the EMA material. In the case of weapons, an anti-oversight module (which matches the weapon port and must also be cosmetically embodied) holds a portion of the access control and firing system. Bullets and the like are fired only when a specific signal is generated from the module.

220 BC001-A8E842FC2AB4 [65] Fingerprint technique for firearms
Fingerprint technique for firearms, characterized in that a firmly introduced Inlay, for example a ring or a plurality of rings of a special alloy or of a special chemical substance, which are not processed in the alloys of projectiles, are incorporated, which leave superficial, chemically detectable traces on the projectiles during the firing of projectiles due to the friction occurring during the shooting through of the barrel.

221 BC001-8ABCA50DBAC0 [65] Gun real-name access management system
The embodiment of the invention provides a gun real-name access management system. The gun real-name access management system comprises a gun clamp, a gun detection module, a fingerprint acquisition module, a video monitoring module and a control module, the gun clamp is used for fixing a gun; the gun detection module is arranged in the gun clamp, and the gun detection module, the fingerprint acquisition module and the video monitoring module are respectively in communication connection with the control module. According to the gun real-name access management system provided by the invention, the gun management efficiency is improved, and errors of manual management are reduced.

222 BC001-FBFE759C41C1 [65] Intelligent massage detection system and detection method for fascia gun
The invention provides an intelligent massage detection system and method for a fascia gun. The detection system comprises a physiological detector, a control chip and a handle body. The physiological detector comprises a skin surface current detector, a pressure detector and a blood pressure and blood oxygen detector; the skin surface current detector, the pressure detector and the blood pressure and blood oxygen detector are respectively in signal connection with the control chip; a metal electrode plate is arranged on the skin surface current detector; the pressure detector includes: a film pressure sensor; the blood pressure and blood oxygen detector comprises a shading body, a red light emitter and a receiver. According to the fascia gun intelligent massage detection system, fascia gun equipment is combined with personal information and a health information book for massage detection, personalized accurate recommendation is carried out, customized optimization can be carried out on a massage program in combination with data information used by a user, the massage program and analysis optimization are subjected to overall closed-loop processing, and the massage efficiency is improved. Therefore, the recommendation logic is continuously improved, and better massage experience is brought to the user.

223 BC001-F78E280BC834 [65] Intelligent networked gun and bullet cabin management system
The invention discloses an intelligent networked gun and bullet cabin management system, and relates to the technical field of firearm cabinets. The intelligent networked gun and bullet cabin management system comprises a gun and bullet cabin installed on a using unit, the gun and bullet cabin is connected to a management center server through a gun and bullet cabin networking management module, the management center server is connected with a gun and bullet cabin system management database, a background supervision and administration module and a GSM short message module, the GSM short message module is in communication connection with a mobile phone of a system manager through a GSM wireless network, gun returning reminds can be sent in real time through the GSM short message module, and inventory firearm inquire is conducted. The intelligent networked gun and bullet cabin management system is convenient to operate, can conduct the storage/taking operation as long as fingerprint comparison is succeeded, and is very user-friendly in function design.

224 BC001-C33F74E23FC9 [65] Managing operation of a weapon
A weapon assembly includes a weapon; a weapon holster configured to receive and support at least a portion of the weapon; and a controller that includes a biometric sensor and a weapon activation sensor. The controller perform operations including transmitting a signal generated by the weapon activation sensor that is indicative of at least one of a release of the portion of the weapon from the weapon holster or a discharge of the weapon; and transmitting a signal generated by the biometric sensor indicative of a biometric state of a user of the weapon subsequent to the release of the portion of the weapon from the weapon holster or the discharge of the weapon. The signal generated by the biometric sensor is processable by a control system to generate a biometric feedback to determine a predictive diagnosis for the user.

225 BC001-F73A346469D7 [65] Novel intelligent gun management system
The utility model discloses a novel intelligent gun management system, which comprises a foreground management system, a data maintenance computer management system, a background computer monitoring management system and a background service center, wherein the foreground management system, the data maintenance computer management system, the background computer monitoring management system and the background service center are in signal connection through the Internet or are connected with each other in a wireless transmission mode and comprises a gun cabinet and a bullet cabinet, the gun cabinet and the bullet cabinet are respectively provided with a fingerprint scanner and an industrial control microcomputer system, the industrial control microcomputer system is in main charge of gun/bullet taking and return operation, the real-time monitoring of the gun/bullet cabinet and the like, the data maintenance computer management system carries out addition, modification and deletion operation on data such as gun information, police information, fingerprint data, department information and the like, the background computer monitoring management system monitors the gun taking and return and warning conditions of the foreground management system and verifies the add or modify personal information submitted by the data maintenance computer management system, and the background service center is a computer server and is in charge of storing data and processing some data services. The novel intelligent gun management system has the advantages that the management is simple, easy and accurate, safety and reliability are realized, the management efficiency is high, and the management effect is good.

226 BC001-ADF7D29462AE [65] Self-service device for electronic certificate handling
Disclosed is a self-service device for electronic certificate handling, comprising an ID card reader 1, a bar-code scanning gun 2, a bioinformation gatherer 3, a pick-up head 4, a central processing module 5, a memory 6, a display 7, an input device 8, an electronic signature plate 9, and a printing device 10. The self-service device of the utility model is capable of rapidly registering personnel information and logging double fingerprint with flexible, rapid, and easy operation. The self-service device is capable of reading ID cards and scanning the bar code information, reducing table-filling time and waiting time, and improving the user satisfaction degree.

227 BC001-1B7818CB0FDB [65] Shooting Success Prediction and Smart Decision Support System with Sensor and Biometric Data Integration in Shooting Training
Our invention is related to a sensor-based system integrated on weapons and targets in order to increase the efficiency of shooting training and reduce costs. Accelerometer (ACC) and gyroscope (GYRO) sensors measure the movement dynamics of the weapon precisely, measuring critical data such as recoil, vibration, direction changes and angular speed in real time, and the sensor target system provides success or error feedback by instantly detecting the accuracy of the shot. The proposed system offers a more comprehensive analysis by evaluating not only the gun movements but also the shooter's physiological data. In this way, instructors can provide more conscious and effective feedback considering not only the mechanical mistakes but also their psychological and physiological status.

228 BC001-CBA95B5B0896 [65] System, device and methods for drug compliance assistance
A system to alleviate the burden that elderly non-hospital patients face with drug compliance is exposed. Preferred embodiments of the invention provide advantages for handling error-prone tasks. The system includes an integrated dispensing device with remote medical monitoring. The dispensing device is placed in communication with a monitoring station, where the transmitted data is processed by a server and stored in a database. Online accessible configuration panels are provided to patients and healthcare professionals for safe implementation in the dispensing device of medical programs, reminders, alarms and personalized messages, even in response to triggering events. The configuration panels accessible online can also allow you to manage plans for drug refills and medical visits. In addition, the dispensing device can be loaded with planned doses prepared and packaged under the supervision of pharmacists, and home delivery can also be included. Another form of control for safe drug distribution can be implemented through a process of recognizing the drugs that are released. In addition, the dispensing device is configured to collect physiological data, available with compliance profiles from configuration panels accessible online. The advantage is that healthcare professionals are in a position to verify treatments and prevent emergencies with timely interventions. The dispensing device is also expected to be equipped with a touch screen to simplify communication between patients and healthcare professionals. Personalized investigations can be initiated by patients to request medical assistance and refine it. In this way, patients can further improve their ability to manage the disease.

229 BC001-1592D20339E2 [60] Anti-fingerprint mirror surface paperboard and use method thereof
The invention discloses an anti-fingerprint mirror surface paperboard and a use method thereof, and relates to the technical field of anti-fingerprint mirror surface paperboards, and the anti-fingerprint mirror surface paperboard is specifically prepared by the following steps: firstly spraying a composite sizing material on a raw paper roll, with the weight ratio of the raw paper roll to the composite sizing material being (4-6): (1-2), curing through a high-temperature high-pressure roller, and then rewinding and standing to obtain a pretreated paper roll; secondly, the side, coated with the composite sizing material, of the pretreated paper roll and an aluminum film are evenly coated with a glue solution and compounded through a high-temperature and high-pressure roller, the weight ratio of the pretreated paper roll to the glue solution is (4-6): (1-2), standing and cooling are conducted to the room temperature, and the highlight mirror surface paper is obtained; and finally, the face, containing the aluminum film, of the highlight mirror surface paper and the anti-fingerprint coatings are subjected to high-pressure spraying through a spray gun technology, and the mass ratio of the highlight mirror surface paper to the anti-fingerprint coatings is (4-6): (1-2). Through the protection of the anti-fingerprint coating, the problem that fingerprints are left when a user uses the mirror surface card paper is solved.

230 BC001-FF788111B66D [60] Method and device for detecting a fire shot event in a weapon
The object of the present invention is to detect a fire shot event in a weapon. This is achieved by a method comprising the steps of measuring a physical quantity whose magnitude changes in time as a result of a fire shot event so as to obtain a measurement signal, and comparing the measurement signal with a predetermined time-domain fingerprint for said quantity, which fingerprint is characteristic of the way said quantity varies in time upon a fire shot event, in order to confirm the occurrence of a fire shot event in case said measurement signal and said fingerprint match.

231 BC001-05E47FE290E1 [60] Perfusion gun and perfusion system with same
The utility model discloses a perfusion gun comprising a gun body and a gun head which is arranged on the gun body and which is used for connecting to an object for perfusion. The perfusion gun further comprises a hose joint used for connecting to a perfusion hose and a fingerprint control switch used for controlling to start evacuating and perfusion operations. The utility model further provides a perfusion system with the perfusion gun. The perfusion gun and the perfusion system have the advantages that the illegal operation of non designated operators can be eliminated, the perfusion quality can be guaranteed effectively, the operator qualification informationized management is implemented, and the safety of perfusion system operation is improved.

232 BC001-E3D763FD98B0 [60] Preprocessing device of pottery fingerprint piece
The utility model discloses a preprocessing device of pottery fingerprint piece. This preprocessing device includes conveying mechanism, feed mechanism is located conveying mechanism's feed end, including ball screw, drive ball screw's feeding motor and be located the charging tray on ball screw top, material shifting mechanism is located conveying mechanism's feed end and is located feed mechanism's top, and including arm and translation driver part and the lift driver part be connected with the arm respectively, the bottom of arm is equipped with the sucking disc, spraying mechanism is located conveying mechanism's top, including the spray gun, with the one end sliding connection's of spray gun spraying slide rail and the gliding slip driver part of drive spray gun, stoving mechanism is located conveying mechanism to the traffic direction of following conveying mechanism is located the place ahead of spraying mechanism. The utility model discloses preprocessing device of pottery fingerprint piece, the ceramic unburned bricks piece after the processing is difficult for the adhesion in follow -up course of working, reduced the cost of ceramic fingerprint wafer process, has improved the quality of ceramic fingerprint piece.

233 BC001-943DB1AA1CD1 [60] Pretreatment method for ceramic fingerprint sheet and preparation method of ceramic fingerprint sheet
The invention discloses a pretreatment method and preparation method of a ceramic fingerprint sheet. The pretreatment method of the ceramic fingerprint sheet includes the steps of: mixing zirconium powder, a polyvinyl alcohol solution and water together, and stirring the substances evenly to obtain a powder coating slurry; loading the powder coating slurry into an air gun; placing a green ceramic sheet on a clean film, opening the air gun, conducting first spraying of the powder coating slurry to one surface of the green ceramic sheet, closing the air gun, and naturally placing the green ceramic sheet until no water drop on the surface of the green ceramic sheet visually; passing the green ceramic sheet with the powder coating slurry through an oven at a preset speed by a conveying mechanism so as to obtain a ceramic fingerprint sheet pretreatment product. And according to the preparation method of the ceramic fingerprint sheet, glue discharging and sintering are carried out after pretreatment. The green ceramic sheet treated by the pretreatment method provided by the invention does not adhere easily, the processing cost of the ceramic fingerprint sheet is reduced, and the quality of the ceramic fingerprint sheet is improved.

234 BC001-2F60A4D246D1 [60] Sheet for taking fingerprints
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To provide a sheet for taking fingerprints which takes the fingerprints in the state of a positive image with a simple operation, makes the taken fingerprints distinctly visible from the rear surface side of a base material, allows the taking of the fingerprints even when a weapon, etc., are stuck with the blood or even when the surface stuck with the fingerprints is wet and has the excellent preservable property of the taken fingerprints.SOLUTION: This sheet for taking the fingerprints is provided with a fingerprint taking layer on the surface of a base material consisting of a transparent plastic film so that the fingerprints of the positive images are visible or readable from the rear surface side of the base material. The fingerprint taking layer is composed of an under coating layer which consists of at least a binder and is formed on the base material surface and the fingerprint fixing layer formed thereon.COPYRIGHT: (C)1997,JPO

235 BC001-339752FC370C [58] A line-marking robot
The present invention relates to an autonomous line-marking device (100) for accurately marking lines on various terrains. The device (100) comprises: a support frame (101); a propulsion mechanism (102) with stepper motors (10) for precise movement; a sprayer mechanism (103) with a precision nozzle (25) and compressor (23); an obstacle detection module (109) and a navigation module (104) integrating GPS, IMU, and AHRS for accurate tracking in GPS-denied environments. A controller unit (105) manages operations and executes preprogrammed paths; and a power unit (106) supplies power. A user interface application module (107) in communication with the controller (105) via a communication module (108), enables wireless control, path customization, and real-time monitoring. The sprayer gun (20) is activated automatically upon alignment with intended paths, and route data is stored to prevent redundant marking. The device (100) reduces paint waste, increases efficiency, and minimizes human intervention through a cost-effective and modular design.

236 BC001-7699A690E33D [58] Ai-powered snipper detection system and method for detecting and localizing sniper threats
An AI-powered sniper detection system (100) comprising a multi-sensor detection unit (102), comprising a plurality of acoustic sensors (108) configured to detect gunshot sounds, muzzle blasts, and bullet shockwaves, and to triangulate sniper position, at least one optical camera (110) configured to capture muzzle flash and glare from sniper scopes, at least one thermal imaging sensor (112) configured to detect heat signatures from snipers, an artificial intelligence processing unit (104) configured to receive and analyze sensor data to identify and classify sniper threats, execute gunshot detection and classification to recognize specific firearm calibers based on audio profiles, perform ballistic trajectory estimation to predict bullet flight paths and identify shooter locations, an autonomous counter-sniper unit (106) configured to trigger automatic defense mechanisms, provide haptic feedback to soldiers through wearables that deliver vibration or audio alerts indicating sniper direction and distance.

237 BC001-C91DE21B43BA [58] An acoustic gunshot detection and alerting system using wireless rf communication networks
An Acoustic Gunshot Detection and Alerting System Using Wireless RF Communication Networks comprises of Processing Unit (01), MEMS Microphone Sensor (02), Sound Pressure Level Sensor (03), Infrasound Detection Sensor (04), Real-Time Clock Module (05), nRF Wireless Communication Module (06), Power Supply Unit (07), Processing Unit (30), GPS Localization Module (31), Motion Detection Sensor (32), Image Capture Module (33), Vibration Detection Sensor (34), nRF Wireless Communication Module (35), Power Supply Unit (36), Processing Unit (60), Temperature and Humidity Sensor (61), Wind Speed Sensor (62), Ambient Light Sensor (63), Rain Detection Sensor (64), nRF Wireless Communication Module (65), Power Supply Unit (66), Processing Unit (80), nRF Coordinator Module (81), GSM Communication Module (82), Cloud Data Logging Module (83), Alert Display Unit (84), Cloud Server / Monitoring Dashboard (85), Power Supply Unit (86). The Acoustic Sensing and Detection Node (Node 1), equipped with a MEMS Microphone, SPL Meter, Infrasound Sensor, Real-Time Clock (RTC) Module, nRF Module, and Power Supply, enables continuous multilayered automated gunshot acoustic signature detection by simultaneously capturing high-sensitivity acoustic waveforms, measuring impulsive sound pressure events exceeding gunshot thresholds, and detecting low-frequency blast pressure waves uniquely characteristic of firearm discharges, ensuring real-time gunshot event detection with legally precise timestamped incident records wirelessly transmitted to the centralized incident management platform.

238 BC001-04C886099EEC [58] Animal migration route prediction method and device based on infrared camera monitoring data
The invention provides an animal migration route prediction method and device based on infrared camera monitoring data, relates to the technical field of animal migration route prediction, and improves the accuracy of animal migration route prediction and emergency response efficiency through multi-source data fusion and dynamic model cooperation. Firstly, integrating an infrared monitoring model, a fire spreading model and a species behavior strategy library, realizing quantitative modeling of animal risk avoidance behaviors in a fire environment, enabling a prediction path to meet a history rule and respond to real-time threats, secondly, accurately distinguishing natural fires from artificial fires based on a spectrum characteristic and a fire source classification mechanism verified on site, reducing ecological interference caused by misjudgment, and finally, automatically calibrating affected facilities and triggering classified alarms through dynamic superposition of a migration path and a digital map, and optimizing resource allocation, thereby breaking through the bottleneck of the traditional method in the aspects of dynamic environment adaptability, species behavior modeling and human-animal conflict alleviation, and realizing efficient cooperation between ecological protection and public safety.

239 BC001-238B0EBCB592 [58] Automated monitoring the shells landing coordinates information transmission system
The present invention relates to software and hardware technology. At the time of cannon shooting training, four high-performance digital cameras are installed at positions where an observation team can take images of a target without going up to an observatory. Coordinates are automatically observed without error at the time of impact of a cannon. Observation information three-item image, text, number, and shooting score are converted into voice while storing observation coordinates in a recording controller at the time of cannon impact by link with GPS (global position system) information, are fused and interlocked with an image wireless automatic relay device interface, and are transmitted to a wireless image transmitter wireless center multi-functional comprehensive server, and a control station and a cannon gunner monitor coordinate three-item image, text, number, and score in real time. Firewalls authenticated in a national intelligence service capable of systematically operating rapidly and safely cannon shooting are installed on both of a local system image wireless transmission side and a center system multi-functional comprehensive server reception side. A designated target is divided into four coordinates, and is automatically and accurately observed for each zone, coordinate three-item information image, text, number, and shooting score are automatically detected, are transmitted to the control station and the cannon gunner in real time and are automatically printed out on an A4 sheet. The coordinates, text, number, and score are verbally announced in a shooting range control station observation room, thereby quickly training gunners.

240 BC001-8A045B6D5DF2 [58] Computer aided wire wrap operator check system
There is disclosed herein an apparatus for computerized real time verification of the correctness of pin locations for wire wrap connections made by human operators in constructing or upgrading computer backplanes. A suitably programmed microprocessor operates from a data base consisting of the information from a wire list drawing fed into the microprocessor's memory from a cassette tape record. The microprocessor is linked to the backplane to be verified and to the hand operated wire wrap gun serving as the test probe by a uniquely designed Wire Check System Interface. Both wire adds and wire deletes may be made. The microprocessor serves to check the operator's badge number for proper authority, bootload the data base, find the sequence of wires to be added or deleted, display the addition or deletion data on a CRT by identifying the "from" and "to" pins, and to verify the correct placement of the wire wrap gun by the operator by lighting a red or green LED and sounding an audible alarm on red when an index/test strip switch is activated by the operator. Printed reports of wire check errors are also generated. In the preferred embodiment, use of the computer aided wire wrap operator check system can be expected to reduce wiring errors to an average of five errors per upgraded or newly constructed system-a figure which can result in substantial cost savings.

241 BC001-65202A4936DF [58] Confrontation evaluation system for combat exercise
The invention relates to a confrontation evaluation system for combat exercise. The system comprises an imitation gun, a shooting direction acquisition system, a data acquisition and transmission module, a gun locking device, an individual soldier positioning system and a computer background; the shooting direction acquisition system comprises an image acquisition module which is arranged at the gun head position of the imitation gun; the imitation gun is also provided with the gun locking device; the gun locking device and the image acquisition module communicate with the computer background through the data acquisition and transmission module; the individual soldier positioning system positions real-time position information of an individual soldier and transmits the real-time position information back to the computer background; and when a launcher pulls a trigger, the image acquisition module is started to shoot an image in the sighting direction of the imitation gun and transmits the image to the computer background, the computer background analyzes and calculates the image, and during calculation, an image center point is used as a reference position of an impact point, and deviation correction is carried out by combining weather conditions and a firing range to determine a corrected impact point. Whether a combat officer is hit or not is judged in combination with the real-time position information of the individual soldier, and the gun locking device of the hit person is controlled in time to lock the gun.

242 BC001-4515CB7AC389 [58] Detecting the direction and location of noise sources
A receiving unit 12 consists of a three-dimensional acoustical array for receiving a multiplicity of sound signals 16 from different directions. The sound signals have at least one sound source of interest. A processing unit 14 consists of a beamformer 34 for identifying the elevation and azimuth of each of the sound signals, a sound database 32 containing a multiplicity of soundprints of sound sources of interest, apparatus for classifying the sound signals with the soundprints, and apparatus for providing the azimuth and elevation of each of the classified sound signals. A user interface unit 22 indicates the azimuths and elevations of the classified sound signals. The processing unit further consists of apparatus 36 for filtering extraneous noise signals. The sound sources of interest may be gun shots. The system may be mounted on a soldier's helmet (fig 4) along with a compass (78, fig 4) and inclinometer (80, fig 4) to record the orientation of the receiving unit when a shot is heard. Alternatively the system could be mounted on a light vehicle (fig 6).

243 BC001-F8F6E473F228 [58] Directional identification linkage self-locking informatization air supply system
The utility model relates to a directional identification linkage self-locking informatization air supply system which comprises an air storage tank, an operation box is arranged on the air storage tank, and a filling device is arranged on the operation box. An electric control device; the anti-explosion lock is arranged on the operation box, and a first electronic identification tag is arranged on the anti-explosion lock; the filling gun is connected with the fuel supply terminal, and a second electronic identification tag is arranged on the filling gun; a cloud platform; a reading terminal; when fuel is filled, the anti-explosion lock, the filling gun and the reading terminal are located in the electronic fence; the anti-explosion lock is in communication connection with the cloud platform through the electric control equipment; the cloud platform is in communication connection with the reading terminal. According to the informatization gas supply system, multiple self-protection such as monitoring, electric control and safety early warning can be achieved, remote satellite positioning and remote electronic pairing can be achieved, and the informatization gas supply system is developed in an associated and integrated mode and is reasonable in structure and complete in function.

244 BC001-7643C028D194 [58] Fire extinguishing and rescue system of automatic fire alarm linkage robot
The invention provides a fire extinguishing and rescue system of an automatic fire alarm linkage robot, and relates to the field of fire extinguishing and rescue, the fire extinguishing and rescue system comprises a fire detection starting module, an intelligent navigation moving module, a fire source scanning and position adjusting module, an auxiliary rescue response module and a fire extinguishing execution module, a fire behavior identification subsystem is carried in the fire detection starting module, and a redundancy guarantee mechanism is established through video monitoring linkage; according to the system, the intelligent robot is located in the building, a fire can be extinguished in the initial stage, and the dangerous scene where fire rescue workers work is replaced. The positioning system and the infrared scanning device guide fire extinguishing, and the influence of severe conditions of a fire scene is overcome. The rescue process is standardized, material delivery is weaponized, decision-making logic is intelligentized, the limitation of first fire extinguishing and then rescue in traditional fire fighting is broken through, and the survival rate of trapped persons is increased.

245 BC001-3F962EC9B647 [58] Firearm monitoring device and system
A device and system for firearm tracking capable of tracking firearm location and status while limiting un-authorized use of a firearm. The device featuring a housing that is compatible with a firearm magazine-well wherein once secured to a firearm the device may not be disassociated therefrom rendering the firearm non-functional.

246 BC001-11ECC47621F4 [58] Full-automatic intelligent pipetting method and system
The invention relates to the technical field of robot operation and laboratory intellectualization, in particular to a full-automatic intelligent pipetting method and system. The control and sensing device is additionally arranged on the commercial manual pipetting gun, so that the digital adjustment of the volume and the real-time monitoring of the state are realized. The robot is controlled to liquid gun is equipped with arm, wrist camera, clamping jaw and touch sensor, is responsible for intelligent liquid gun's space location, snatchs and removes. When the system works, after receiving a pipetting task, the robot automatically grabs a pipetting gun, installs a gun head and identifies a container through visual guidance, adjusts the volume by utilizing force feedback and detects the liquid level, completes accurate pipetting and liquid draining, and finally automatically unloads the gun head. The invention combines machine vision and multidimensional force sense sensing technologies, realizes unmanned and intelligent operation of the whole pipetting process, has the advantages of low cost, strong compatibility, high pipetting accuracy, good reliability and the like, and is particularly suitable for automation experimental scenes in the fields of life science, medical diagnosis and the like.

247 BC001-9087195B3C61 [58] Goods shelf material management system and management method thereof
The invention relates to the technical field of electronic material warehouse management, in particular to a goods shelf material management system and a management method thereof.The system comprises a material identification module, a goods shelf induction positioning module, a warehousing binding module and a data management module, the goods shelf sensing and positioning module monitors the warehousing condition of a material disc and sends a signal to the warehousing binding module after successful warehousing, the warehousing binding module reads identity information of the material, places the material in a target warehouse position and generates warehouse position binding information, and the data management module receives information such as the identity of the material, warehousing, warehouse position binding and the inventory state and stores the information in a local database. According to the system, the material position can be accurately positioned, the material taking efficiency is improved, taking errors are reduced, the full-life-cycle information of the material can be systematically recorded, troubleshooting is facilitated, and it is guaranteed that the production process is stable and efficient.

248 BC001-0F435DA6AC39 [58] Guidance optimization method for AI self-adaptive unmanned aerial vehicle for high-speed long voyage
The invention discloses a high-speed long-flight AI adaptive unmanned aerial vehicle guidance optimization method which comprises the following steps that multi-source sensing data of a target area are collected in real time through a multi-mode sensor, and the multi-mode sensor comprises a thermal imaging module, a visible light camera module, an inertial measurement unit and a global positioning system; performing dynamic target identification and tracking on the multi-source sensing data acquired in the step S100 based on a deep neural network; generating an optimal attack path in real time through a reinforcement learning algorithm according to a motion track prediction result of the target in combination with flight state data of the unmanned aerial vehicle and environmental constraint conditions; and when the target enters the preset strike range, triggering an AI terminal guidance function. The method has the following advantages and effects: the autonomous combat ability of the unmanned aerial vehicle in a complex dynamic environment is greatly improved, real-time target identification, path planning and attack optimization of the unmanned aerial vehicle in a complex battlefield environment are realized, and the combat efficiency and precision are improved.

249 BC001-E29EB3FB218C [58] Gun System and Gun Control Management System Prohibit Gun Violence in Reactive and Proactive
The Gun System and Gun-Control Management System is a two part system to thwart gun violence in any places. The Gun System is a microprocessor with memory and supporting components that are embedded in the gun. The CPU of the Gun System executes software with data from the memory to identify authorized users with stand-alone electrical device; to discharge Unauthorized user with remote power switch or systems; to prohibit firearm use in restricted areas such as schools and other public places with GPS device and disable the gun trigger by moving it into the locked position with disabling device. In this way, the gun system thwarts gun violence in a reactive mode. The Gun-Control Management system maintains a plurality of database in communication with multiple gun systems to thwarts gun violence in proactive mode.

250 BC001-A38917EDE822 [58] Intelligent management system and method for advanced packaging key cooperation clamp
The invention relates to the technical field of advanced packaging and manufacturing of semiconductors, in particular to an intelligent management system and method for advanced packaging key industry clamps. The intelligent management system for the semiconductor bonding operation clamp comprises a double-identification management module, a three-code dynamic binding verification module, a multi-parameter state monitoring module, an LSTM predictive maintenance module, a data construction LSTM neural network model, a maintenance and scrapping execution module, a response early warning and execution maintenance or scrapping operation, and a control unit, wherein the three-code dynamic binding verification module synchronously collects and verifies the clamp codes, the compatibility of the equipment codes and the wafer codes at a loading station of bonding equipment, and sends instructions to the control unit according to verification results, the multi-parameter state monitoring module collects vibration data and temperature data of the clamp in real time, periodically detects clamp positioning precision parameters, the LSTM predictive maintenance module is used for constructing the LSTM neural network model, predicting the residual service life of the clamp and triggering grading early warning, and the maintenance and scrapping execution module is used for responding the early warning and executing maintenance or scrapping operation.

251 BC001-FB2CB812804F [58] Mobile file, indentification and security system device
A mobile file, identification and security system device is disclosed with a particular architecture for allowing a card swiper/reader, vehicle computer, signal processor, signal receiver/transmitter, and receiver with display screen and speaker to transmit status/data-information i.e. a person name, vehicle tag and registration numbers, vehicle insurance effective dates, vehicle driver-owner-occupant name, vehicle make-model-color and associated business-commercial name and address affiliation, etc to any home, medical office, security gate check point, law enforcement/security vehicle, or remote location for verification, convenience, and identification and also for allowing a law enforcement/security officer portable handheld vehicle anti-theft device to jam/disable a vehicle engine-electronics system while in motion (being pursued) or parked. Intended user is the military and law enforcement, and any home, medical office, security gate checkpoint, or vehicle. The present systems key advantages provides a standoff identification-security system and a highway safety offensive-defensive weapon system tool/device for the military, law enforcement, and general public, and an assistive mobile/portable medical file/record and tool for emergency situations. The present systems key objectives are to support, improve and reinforce the Department of Homeland Security Highway Safety Initiatives and the War on Terror.

252 BC001-F6107C3499C7 [58] Modularized quick-change type multi-specification barrel type filling complete machine integration system
The invention relates to the technical field of barrel-shaped container filling equipment control, and discloses a modularized quick-change type multi-specification barrel-shaped filling complete machine integration system, which is characterized in that quick-change modules, barrel-shaped postures and filling execution related observation data under a current type change working condition are acquired, and a constraint mapping relation is formed according to assembly identities of the quick-change modules and structural boundaries; a standardized observation result of the remodeling working condition is generated through filling station calibration; generating a barrel opening accessible window and a static filling constraint result based on the model changing working condition standardized observation result; carrying out full-depth matching on the descending track of the filling gun and the barrel opening accessible window, generating a track entry margin and a remodeling alignment credibility, and outputting a filling permission result; in the filling process, a dynamic alignment disturbance result is generated according to the filling process observation data, the dynamic alignment state is updated, and a filling control instruction is generated. According to the method, the risks of offset insertion, scraping and liquid splashing caused by concealment dislocation after multi-specification barrel type switching can be reduced.

253 BC001-C3791D5EE3E9 [58] Molded plastic cartridge with extended flash tube, sub-sonic cartridges, and user identification for firearms and site sensing fire control
Cartridges for firearms are created with extended flash tubes to ignite the propellant efficiently from base of the projectile to the interior rear of the cartridge case. Some firearms include a specially designed trigger and microphone capable of verifying a user's identity so that only an authorized user can discharge the firearm. Some firearms include a GPS sensor, World Time RF sensor, and stored updatable list of times, GPS coordinates, distances from the GPS coordinates such that the firearm is disabled for use in these restricted areas.

254 BC001-D3C36118E9E6 [58] Molded plastic cartridge with extended flash tube, sub-sonic cartridges, and user identification for firearms and site sensing fire control
Cartridges for firearms are created with extended flash tubes to ignite the propellant efficiently from base of the projectile to the interior rear of the cartridge case. Some firearms include a specially designed trigger and microphone capable of verifying a user's identity so that only an authorized user can discharge the firearm. Some firearms include a GPS sensor, World Time RF sensor, and stored updatable list of times, GPS coordinates, distances from the GPS coordinates such that the firearm is disabled for use in these restricted areas.

255 BC001-CC81709A9777 [58] Multi-layer threshold adjustable socket system that detects standby consumption and automatically closes the mechanical on/off switch
This invention is an intelligent electrical outlet system developed to prevent energy waste occurring in standby mode of electrical devices. The basic principle of the system is to detect the transition to standby mode by continuously monitoring the current consumption of the connected devices, and in this case to completely cut the energy of the outlet through a physical mechanical switch. The components of the system include the microcontroller, Hall effect based current sensor, servo motor, servo arm, stopper element, DIP switch set, trimmer potentiometer, EEPROM memory module, calibrated indicator dial, ADC module and caliber button. These components work together to monitor the consumption profiles of electrical devices and make appropriate interventions. The distinctive feature of the invention is that it offers a three-layer threshold adjustment mechanism that can adapt to different device types. The first layer is set at the hardware level: with the DIP switch you can choose from sixteen different profiles. These profiles include typical standby current values for different device categories such as television, computer, charger, office equipment. In addition, precise adjustments can be made to the selected profile with the trimmer potentiometer. The instrument dial allows the user to visually follow the current setting level. The second layer runs software-based. The EEPROM memory module stores minimum and maximum threshold values, validation times, hysteresis bands, and security control data for each profile. This layer includes various locks for the system to work safely: minimum threshold lock that blocks very low threshold values, maximum threshold lock that limits extremely high values, and time lock that determines the verification time range. In addition, the anti-lock mechanism detects the vibration states that can keep the system in an open-close loop and automatically solves this problem by increasing the threshold value. The third layer includes intelligent adaptation. When Auto Mode is selected, the system implements a ten-cycle learning process. In the first cycles, the active and standby current values of the connected device are recorded. The average and standard deviation of the standby currents are calculated in the following cycles. Based on these statistical data, an optimal threshold value is determined and recorded on the EEPROM. The system adapts to device aging or changes in environmental conditions by recalculating the threshold value at certain intervals after learning. The microcontroller applies high-frequency samples and digital filtering of analog signals received from the current sensor. The system reacts when the measured current value remains below the specified threshold for a certain period of time and passes hysteresis tape control. The hysteresis mechanism ensures stable operation by preventing vibrations that may occur around the threshold. The servo motor gently applies pressure to the mechanical switch by precise positioning with the PWM signal it receives from the microcontroller. The stopper element prevents excessive positioning by physically determining the movement limits of the servo motor. By placing the mechanical switch in the closed position, the outlet and the energy coming to the control circuit are completely cut off. The microcontroller deactivates the system by cutting its own energy after returning the servo motor to its neutral position. This results in zero standby consumption at the outlet. Since no electronic relay or solid state switch is used, leakage current and leakage current problems are not experienced. Re-opening of the outlet occurs when the user manually turns on the mechanical switch. This one-way automation approach prevents unwanted automatic opening. After manual opening, the system is activated again and begins the standby monitoring cycle. With the Caliber button, users can create a custom profile based on the current current value or reset the system to its factory settings. The system provides energy efficiency through flexible adaptation to different device types, true zero consumption, smart learning and false trigger prevention features.

256 BC001-1E6F7C857006 [58] Safety control system for portable weapons, including crossbow and firearms, such as handguns, rifles and alike
A safety control system (200a, 200b, 200c, 200d,200e) for portable weapons, including, but not limited to, crossbows and firearms, such as guns, rifles and alike, uses various sensors to ensure safe target, environment, location, and situation for operating portable weapons. The safety control system (200a, 200b, 200c, 200d,200e) unlocks a firing sequence of the portable weapons only when it is safe to operate.

257 BC001-4C08D29B1999 [58] Security system and devices for musical instruments, firearms, bicycles, and other objects
A security system having a device that attach directly to and locks on or around an object to be secured, or one or more parts of the system are integrated into a full or partial enclosure that fully or partially encloses or surrounds the object to be secured, that cannot be removed from the object or enclosure without disengaging the locking mechanism through a provided method, and when the device is attached to the object or integrated into the enclosure, the system renders the object unusable for its intended use, and the system is capable of determining location, has a radio transmitter and/or transceiver capable of processing, transmitting and/or relaying information, data and images over terrestrial and/or satellite communication networks, and can include various sensors and other data and image gathering methods, and can contain an audible alarm.

258 BC001-C2CF96ECA914 [58] Self-recognition gluing system
The invention discloses a self-recognition gluing system which comprises a positioning mold and a gluing device, the gluing device is integrated with a glue gun, a glue cleaning scraper, a multi-axis movement assembly and a glue overflow detection module, a two-dimensional contour and three-dimensional point cloud model is constructed through fusion of a linear array visual sensor and a laser distance measuring sensor, preset gluing path deviation is compared in real time, and the glue overflow detection module is used for detecting glue overflow. The system comprises a driving glue cleaning scraper, a bearing platform, a glue gun, an AI self-learning module and a motion error compensation module, wherein the driving glue cleaning scraper is used for realizing self-adaptive glue cleaning through a flexible hinge, a force control sensor and a shape memory alloy mechanism; a variable-density gluing path can be generated, the glue overflow risk can be predicted, process parameters can be optimized, through multi-sensor fusion detection, intelligent control and self-adaptive mechanism design, the problems that a traditional gluing system is insufficient in positioning precision, incomplete in detection and poor in glue cleaning flexibility are solved, and the automation and intelligence level of sealing ring gluing is remarkably improved.

259 BC001-7B329098C0AC [58] Sorting and goods placing mistake-proofing detection system and method
The system comprises shelf identification marks, a hand identification member, a camera group, a visual system and a business system, the business system is used for generating goods picking/placing storage locations and issuing operation instructions to workers, and the visual system divides virtual storage locations according to the shelf identification marks on images. And after the camera I monitors that the hand assembled with the hand identification piece enters the goods shelf area, the camera II and the camera III are triggered and monitor the actual goods picking and/or the actual goods placing storage location. The goods picking and placing positions are monitored in real time, and correct goods picking and placing are facilitated; compared with traditional scanning gun verification and other means, additional actions are not added, the operation efficiency is not affected, and the method is suitable for bar-code-free goods; by adopting the 2D camera combination, the identification of the distance between the hand and the goods shelf, which can be completed by a 3D camera originally, is achieved, the model selection contradiction among the cost, the visual angle and the depth of field of the 3D camera is effectively avoided, and the method can be suitable for an AGV or a mobile or fixed goods shelf carried in other modes.

260 BC001-59AC5017A9A0 [58] System and method for a digital intellicheck device using geotagging
The present invention discloses a system (100) and method for a digital intellicheck device (104). The system comprises power tools (106) assigned to complete tasks related to installation or maintenance of hardware units (102). A user can utilize the digital intellicheck device (104) to capture unique identification of the hardware unit (102), and receive a wireless trigger signal from the power tool (106) to indicate completion of the task. The digital intellicheck device (104) is configured to verify the successful completion of the task completed by the user. Thereafter, the digital intellicheck device (104) is configured to record a geographical tag to for the completed task, and share the data comprising geotagged task with one or more user devices (108) and the server (110).

261 BC001-BFB115EFF1A5 [58] System and method for real-time detection of illegal forest activities using acoustic sensor networks and adaptive alert generation
The present invention discloses an autonomous, distributed acoustic sensor network and adaptive alert generation system specifically configured for the real - time detection, classification, and spatio-temporal localization of illegal forest activities, such as poaching and unauthorized logging. The system comprises a plurality of hermetically sealed, solar-powered acoustic sensor nodes deployed throughout a forest canopy. Each node features an acoustic transducer array coupled to an edge-processing microcontroller running an advanced signal processing module and a machine learning pattern recognition engine. The system continuously filters out complex ambient environmental background noise to accurately isolate and classify the unique acoustic signatures of mechanical chainsaws and firearm discharges. Upon verified threat detection, an adaptive alert generation module compiles a localized telemetry packet containing precise GPS coordinates and transmits it via an optimized wireless link network selected from LoRa, cellular, or satellite channels to a central monitoring station, facilitating rapid tactical intervention.

262 BC001-5A524A522344 [58] System for automated respiratory medicine delivery
A system for automated respiratory medicine delivery is comprising, an inhaler 101 is equipped with a gun barrel assembly 102 at its bottom periphery to dispense respiratory medicine to a user, multiple canisters 103 within the assembly 102 is paired with an actuator 104 for controlled dispensing of respective medicine, an AI (artificial intelligence)-enabled camera 105 with embedded optical character recognition (OCR) is positioned on the inhaler's outer surface to extract dosage information from medical prescriptions, a wristband 106, communicatively linked to the inhaler 101, is embedded with multiple health monitoring sensors, a GPS module for tracking the user's location, a microphone 107 to monitor voice and coughing patterns in real time, a database stores user respiratory health data, a mobile application on a computing device allows user interaction with system functions, a buzzer 109 and speaker 110 on the wristband 106 provide alerts.

263 BC001-1A4B738EA038 [58] Systems and techniques for managing incident data
The present disclosure provides systems and techniques for generating incident reports. A device, such as a remote device, may receive data including multiple data fields, where a first data field contains a first data value uniquely identifying a gun, and where a second data field contains a second data value identifying a gunshot event. The device may process the data to determine i) a location of the gunshot event and ii) a time of the gunshot event. The device may generate an incident report based on the data, where the incident report indicates a use of force incident, the location of the gunshot event, and the time of the gunshot event. The device may encrypt the incident report using an encryption key to produce an encrypted version of the incident report, and the device may store the encrypted version of the incident report in a database.

264 BC001-59E0C8BBEE78 [58] Universal test platform for server fan backboard
The invention relates to the technical field of server fan testing, and discloses a server fan backboard general test platform, which comprises a test board, the top of the test board is connected with a test clamp assembly, one side of the test clamp assembly is provided with a fan backboard main body, and the test clamp assembly is used for positioning and connecting the fan backboard main body to be tested; the test fixture assembly comprises an upper shell, a lower shell and a lifting mechanism, and the lifting mechanism is used for adjusting the height of the fan backboard main body during test; a first transverse plate is fixed to the bottom of the inner wall of the upper shell, it is guaranteed that a fan back plate body is placed accurately through a double-positioning structure, limiting blocks limit the periphery of the fan back plate body, positioning holes are matched with positioning columns, and position deviation in follow-up lifting, butt joint and other operations is avoided; and the proximity sensor verifies the placement state in real time, and the subsequent process is triggered only when correct placement is confirmed, so that test faults caused by placement deviation are greatly reduced, and a foundation is built for key steps such as subsequent code scanning and connector butt joint.